Page 1

Penitentiary This act provides for every states case, defined the offence and annexed the penaltys building & managing said penitentiary - 25000$ is appropriate. p 5. An act to reform and amend the penal laws of the state This act contains 82 sections and defined every kind of offence and is annexed the penaltys p 27 An act to establish a system of common schools. This act makes provision for the appointment by the county courts of common school commissioners who are to have charge of the funds at agencies but the handing over suspends interest, to our school lands & be to be over by school comm An act to prevent vexations law suits This act provides that in all civil prosecutions founded upon assaults, assaults & batterys & malicious prosecutions & false imprisonment the plfs shall not recover more cost than damages unless the damages given him exceed $5 An act concerning bills of exchange This act defines the damages on foreign & inland bills of exchange and on inland bills 3 prct and cost foreign Bills adjoining the U.S. including the W. India Islands 10 prct on all other countrys 20 prct damages in place of interest up to time of notice of protect $ and 6 prcent Ind thereafter. p 15 An act regulating costs in civil cases This act provides that where suits are commenced in the county or circuit county courts are compromised, the case shall be

Page 2

stricken from theh docket on the payment of the costs which have acrued to the clerk & Sheriff - also where appeals are taken from the decision of J, F, and afterwards compromised, papers not to be taken up, but execution to issue as tho no appeal had been taken. Also partys ruled to new securetys or to justify. p 52 An act to releive the countys in this state from the payment of costs in certain cases. This act provides that in all state prosecutions either in the county or circuit courts under the grade of petit larceny where the Deft may be acquited, the cost shall not be paid out of the county treasury nor shall the county court allow any claim except tailors fees, stated witnesses & shff for sumonsing witnesses in behalf of the state officers of court to have no pay unless ordered to be paid by prosescutor nor shall prosescutor in stated cases for misdeameanor receive any pay as pros. or states witnessses - alls bills of indictment returned, not a true bill by the grand jury, atty Genl not to receive any tax fee as heretofore, and in no case of misdemeanor where the county pays the cost shall the atty Genl tax fee exceed $2.50 p 31 An act to authorise debtors to confess judgment This act authorises debtors to confess judgment by paying to the clerk one dollar for entering up judgment and directs the note to be filed with the clerk p 84 An act for the releif of Exr S Admrs Hereafter Exr S Admrs are allowed six months to assertain and settle the estate of the decd without being liable to the payment of cost. p 89 State Bank - new directory Pres. Directory & cashier - special act - court organized - bond for performance & no tax fee allowed Prs. Bank on judgment - p132 & 94

Page 3

An act for the benefit of Sherrifs & clerks This act gives to Shffs & clerks a right to take judgment by motion against their deputys by giving them 10 days notice - also plfs a right to judgment on same terms by giving 10 days notice, either in the county or circuit court page 75 An act taxing clock pedlars This act requires that they should obtain lisence for which they are to pay 25$ to the state & 75 cts clerks fee. page 92 An act appropriating one half state tax for county purposes heretofore the Sheriffs, county Trustees & Treasures charged commissions for receiving & disbursing these funds the Treasurers now receive no com. page 100. Jrnl 109 - 504 An act to punish negroes for selling spirits - page 102 An act repealing the law requiring county drills This act also directs commandants of Drill Regimentat , Battalion & company musters to receive excused, and where they are satisfactory not to require their attendance at court martial. p 19 Journal 255 An act increasing the jurisdiction of justices of the peace in all civil actions to 50$ - page 40 Jn 473 An act to establish a board of internal improvement and appropriate 150 thousand dollars from the sales of Kiwassee lands. p 103 Resolution to cirt clks 543 adjournment 591 Mchts tax 625

Page 4

An act to establish a quorum court in Smith county - p 11 An act concerning fersiage of Jurymen - p4 Smith County Agency Trial of Judge Williams Bill increasing jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace A bill to equalize tax on merchants Three new judges appointed

