Page 1

Cincinnati, Ohio July 29th 1863 Ever Dearest The Regiment left Gallipolis by the steam-boat "St Louis" on Tuesday morning, the 28th instant and arrived here on the following morng. Our sail was not marked by any incidents worthy of note, but I must not omit mentioning our having past Guyandotte's ville on the Virginia shore, - a pretty bijou of a place, or rather there are evidences of its having been such, but now it bears the marks of some of war's horrors. This was the scene of a cruel, Indian-like massacre of some of our unarmed troops, who were invited into town by the rebels sympathisers on a Sabbath evening upon the pretext of hearing the gospel preached, & forming acquaintances. They left their camp without suspicion, but lo after a few hours, there dashed into the town the rebel horde thirsting for blood and it was for this purpose that the poor fellows were inveigled into the trap by the rebel citizens. They were nearly all massacred in cold blood - a certain Mrs Phillips, a merchant's wife herself shot a soldier in her own house with the utmost unconcern. However, the day of retribution was not far off - a Union Colonel hearing of this infamous treachery destroyed every house near which one of our soldiers was found dead, or whose inmates had extended any invitation on that bloody night. Mrs Phillips has been imprisoned in Camp Chase for over a year and is now, if indeed she has any conscience, suffering the agonies of remorse. This, Jeannie, illustrates the spirit of the rebellion - does it not truly convert men into fiends and even extend its baneful influences to the gentler sex, as manifested in the case cited above? Could you, would you ever have beleived men bearing the name of Americans bred under the most benign of influences capable of the commission of such atrocities? And yet these people when conquered are the most abject cowards, take each singly & they deplore the war. The Morgan prisoners, for instance, are when in our power, the most polite of gentlemen - everything stolen was by irresponsible hangers on & all molestation of private property was

Page 2

contrary to orders. Why Jeannie, this gang didn't hesitate to rob the widow of an only horse or take her last ear of corn - they compelled every woman they found to prepare meals for them. But thank Heaven this gang with its Master spirit has been captured and the enemy in this loss of their cavalry have been dealt a most severe blow. If our good fortune continues as it has commenced, you need not be surprised at hearing of Jeff Davis' flight for parts unknown and a general purging of the whole nation of these vile traitors. I have not heard from you or yours since June 29th; that letter I received just before starting on that memorable pursuit, and I have read it over many a time & tried to deceive myself into the notion that I had just received it. This of course was a failure, but, Jeannie, the contents of these letters, even though they be old are none the less precious - they call up the most pleasant of associations & memories - indeed, they pour "the oil of gladness" upon the despondent soul longing for home & all its surroundings. My darling, though I have not from you for so long a time - (a month is long to me - very long when I have been thus unfortunate) yet a something tells me that you & little Pet are well. I hope that this whispering voice tells the truth. Time, my darling, drags along with the most provoking slowness - it almost seems to mock our desires to meet each other - in fact, what would we do without that "Unfading Hope" about which the poet so sweetly sings. How in the very nick of time it comes to our relief & how welcome as a guest. It may cheat us to be sure but then what a happy knack it has of painting the future - and oh! with such glowing colors. Then it takes us as a parent his child to the mountain top to view the goodly land; and a happy home - the happiest of all - peeps out for us from amid the clustering trees. Our little Maggie has become an elegant woman & her parents begin to be a little jealous of certain youngsters conspiring to rob them of their jewels - They may be even a little captious & wonder at her want of penetration in favoring

Page 3

that young gentleman with curly hair, that knocks his heels so much when he dances, and thinks himself so smart in an argument. But she is a little headstrong & holds up as strenuously for her right of selection as did a certain other copule - the nearest of kin to her. This is however our only trouble and it answers very much the purpose of the acid in the bowl of punch - it gives to the cup of our happiness its indescribable zest. Remember me to all at home - to mother, Fan & Nell - say what is the langauge of my heart's noblest impulse that I would once more be happy with my feet under our common table. And for you, who have been by an inscrutable & cruel destiny so ong separated from me but thank Haven not in spirit, there is reserved in that heart as in the 'Hebrew temple' a Holy of Holies, where none but you can enter, much less abide. here are cherished as the most precious of gems your many winsome ways & acts of delicate regard - upon them I let no dust of forgetfulness settle but keep them glittering both night & day - in dreams & in wakeful hours. These are truly the decorations upon my breast - nay more, my crown jewels, which though their light may be dimmed when the Angel of Death may summon me away I instinctly clasp as my safeguards in hours of despondency. Kiss for me our little daughter and I would that an envious distance did not withhold the same privilege I would fain bestow upon you, but be of good heart my darling, I know that a Kind Heaven will reward our constancy and give us many a year of each other's society. And now most precious, Adieu. Your Devoted Husband John. P.S. I cannot yet give you an address, to which you may write me, with any prospect of the letter's reaching without unreasonable delay or miscarriage, which latter is more to be dreaded.

