Page 1

Charleston Dec. 6. 1852. My Dear Liddy This morning I recd. your Dalton letter - one from your uncle A. & also one from Charlotte. I answer yours at once. How considerate it was in you to write to me. I had heard nothing direct from you so long - I did not know where - nor how you were & was very glad to hear you were so near home & hope you arrived there on the 2nd Dec. You say you wish you could have seen me before I left. Well you are now at home & must spend at least the whole winter there & I should wish a long life after at Mecklenburg I hope the Col. has arrived before this & that you & he can content yourselfs there. I am quite engrossed with my book. The Publishers give me daily one from 16 pages to revise. It will take 8 or 10 weeks to get it out. I will hur m all I can. I can hardly consent t om home that long - & if I have to continue than the 8 weeks may possibly visit y all at the holidays Tell Col. B. to write me - & I hope to hear from you occasionally with the rest. Charlotte your letter was the very thing - all home news - I devoured every word. How is it that my letters have not reached home. I wrote all along the road - & several times since I arrived here - have heard twice from Crozier but from no one else yet but Charly. All will come along after a little. I suspect the Mecklenburg packages are all sent via Nashville & I therefore send in future all my

Page 2

letters to Knoxville - care of J.C. Ramsey into whose box & office Alex. Rob. Mc. & Dr. D. will hereafter always look for them. I have not yet seen Dr. D's mother. She happened to be out when I called. I have called on several friends & have received calls - cards - & invitations in such frequency as to be annoyed by them. I am too busy to act the genteleman all the time. But I have to accept some civilities or be considered uncivil myself - I have to dine out to day & to get this letter in the mail must shorten what I wanted to write - but must add one word to your ma. My Dear Peggy keep yourself perfectly easy - I promise once mo that when my book is finished I will try never to leave such a burden on you again. No body else could act in this behalf for me & we must therefore consent temporarily ngs as they are. Are you quite oor Mc. has had the tooth ache You stay in the cold too much this time you & R. are through the work. Both of you enter at once & earnestly & constantly on your studies Dr. D. is a first rate chance for instructing you & I hope you will both become first rate schollars. Peggy write me yourself some of these times - kiss Arthur Sue & Charlotte for me & that little fellow upstairs. All friends here enquire for him & Ardy. Liddy give my love to all the older ones. Your Affectionately J.G.M. Ramsey. Alexander what about the mill & your (over) contract in R.R.

