Page 1

Friday July 18th 1862 My Dearest Dolly, You want me to write how I spent the fourth and what we had for dinner I spent the day in our room tending our little Darling untill late in the afternoon then I took baby and went down stairs the poor little creature was almost frightened to death her Aunt Fan had her she would lay her little head on fans shoulder, and you could not get her to move or look around. I did not stay down long I did'nt see any Fire Woorks, I dont think it was as noisy during the day but towards evening they made a terible noise our folks were nearly all gone Mr & Mrs Dockendorf Fan, myself, and baby of corse, we had for dinner broiled Lamb, Beef Steak, Peas, & Beans, & delightfull Custard. I think, Johny, would give ours the preference. you should tell those people in sesesh land to put more eggs in their custard towards evening we had, ice cream, now Dol dont allow your mouth to water for t'was not good our Brigett made it t'was not like the Frenchmans cream we used to get I wish dolly could have some of it. let me know if you get the papers I have sent you one every day this week you say you have received one out of the many I sent you. so I venture to send more how did you make out to read that letter writen with lead pencil I think dolly will get tired reading my dream. I did not think you would get the first letter or I would not have put it on the paper the second time. to day the Miss Deans go in the country to day they do not intend to come back. to board they have had a

Page 2

call to teach night chool their excuse is it wil be to far to cross the fery. the fact is this they did not want to change when we came in for fear of having to pay half board now when they return they will have no back board to pay Mother asked them when they engaged board if they would be permanent they assured her they would, so much Dolly for fair promises. I think very few people care wether they tell the truth or a falsehood so that it answers the present emergency. Mrs Gordon has gone to, Staton Island, while her Daughter visits Europe there is another honerable one. Mr. Gordon says she can do as she likes he will remain I dont know wither tis done through principle or contrayness they do not agree very well and think they had just as leave be seperate as not. Mr Pond has left he says he has never felt at home here. he had company one evening they came down in the Bath Rooms and a regular breakdown so that they had to be spoken to. I dont believe he liked it very well although I havent heard that he said anything about it. Dolly all these were to be permanent. Mr Marshal has sailed for Europe, sais if he comes back he will certainly come here. Mr Mott has gone home says in the fall he intends to come back again. Mr Osgood has left he is out of a situation this month. Nels. Saleray is cut off it will not be renewed untill she attends chool again she dont look much like it she is taking Port Wine, and iron. so you see Dolly I have given you splendid news. however we must make the best of tis not so bad but it might be worse. I have not taken any iron I feel so much better I dont know that I will need it so my pet dont worry about me I have been looking all

Page 3

for a letter and feel very much disapointed. at any rate I hope to morrow will bring one. tis uncertain what day we will to Phebe Ann's. I may not have an opportunity of writing to dolly untill I return, if I can steal time I will sis is very cross I have to tend her all the time, she is cutting teeth, Albert was wating to see if you would remain where you were before he wrote. they are circrilating Postage Stamps instead of Specie, tis almost imposible to get a bit of change, Dolly, how do you make out for money surely after sending me so much and paying four dollars, a week board it cant last so long, I am afraid you are sufering for many comforts and do not complain. I know that is your disposition. do be carefull Dolly. I am afraid you will trifull with yourself, or think you can endure more privations than you are realy able to bear, if you want money send to Pa, surely he will be willing to aid you. I am glad to hear you have taken board you will fare a little better if their custards are poor perhaps other things will make up the deficiency at least I hope so. it seems as though my pet had been gone a year or more if it were in my power I would give half the world to see you I am so lonely, Dolly I have been dreaming of the American Eagle and thought some new honers awaited my Darling but it left anything but an agreable impresion on my mind dont accept any position there is any danger in, not mater what the honor may be. I dreamed of a large face in the sky all collors it looked very ugly then it changed to a pure white Eagle, it flew over my head and remained quite a while with

Page 4

its wings spread, then it soard on and out of sight, the bird looked very pretty but that ugly face I am afraid the secesionists will get hold of my Dolly I feel so anxious for him. I wish dolly could see our little pet Ausborn is learning her tricks he plays a great deal with her quite diferent from the stately Barnum, although he takes more notice of her than I thought he would Ausborn tels sis to stick out her tounge and strange to say she does it every time. pretty smart dol, for ten months old, he say she is the greatest young one he ever saw it seems to please him very much she's a little darling and Dolly real pretty to. I took her to the Post Office to put Pa Bo pokers in she was delighted she came up the street crying dad, dad. I hope dolly will come home soon then we will have many a nice walk together with little sis. I see under the head of Medical Oficers of the United States Sanitary Commission Hospital Transport Daniel Webster Dr. JG Byerson's name is it your old friend he went to Fortress Monroe the same time George went George writes Pa he has had an introduction to Mcleland, says he is mixing in with all the big bugs let me know if you receive my letters and papers I hear you have onlly received one paper I am afraid the Rebels will get hold of them now. Mother says you had better come home. She is afraid some harm will come to you they all wish to be remembered to you Mother says I must put a kiss in for baby Doll I am afraid you will not be able to find it where you open the letter. I will bid my pet good by for the present if I can posibly write before I go to Phebe Anns I will do so from you devoted wife Jeannie

