Page 1

Nathaniel W. Williams To Deed 2 Lots North of Carthage David Burford Recorded

Page 2

This Indenture made this 9th day of March A.D. 1824 between Nathaniel W. Williams of Smith County & State of Tennessee of the one part, and David Burford of the County & State aforesaid of the other part, Witnesseth, that said Nathaniel W. for and in consideration of the sum of six hundred &twenty-five Dollars to him in hand paid the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged; the said Nathaniel W. hath and by these presents do bargain &sell, alien infeoff &convey unto said David his heirs & assigns forever two certain lots or parcels of ground situate lying and being in Smith County & State aforesaid on the north side of the road leading from Carthage to Dixons Spring, and oposite to Lot number Seven, which was laid off and sold by Stump &box north, and adjoining the Town of Carthage; which two lots of ground are the same which Joel Dyer now ocupies, or has in his possession, and is to include, or contain the same quantity of Land that two lots of ground Nos 7 & 18 as laid off by Stump & box contain; the quantity of which will more fully appear referance being had to the plan of said lots, laid off &sold by said Stump & box. To have and to hold said two Lots of ground and bargained premises to him the said David his heirs & assigns forever. And the said Nathaniel W. does for himself his heirs and assigns agree to warrant and forever defend the aforesaid lots of ground and bargained premises to him the said David his heirs and assigns, from all and every person or persons whatsoever claiming the same. In Testimony whereof said Nathaniel W. Williams hath hereunto set his hand & affixed his seal the day and year first above written- The word "plan" first interlined before signed. Witnesses present Lem Teleston Jurat Nath W Williams Seal Tim. Walton Jurat

Page 3

Uimio The warranty in this deed is not to enlivd to Joel Dyer on his opiques but to all other persons - Nath W Williams 9th March 1824 Utah of Tempa Smith County Court May Term 1824 Thru the execution of this and and bargain of Sale from Nathaniel W. Williams to David Burforde was duly proven in Open Court by throaths of Lemeul Jeterston and Termally Walton Witnesses thruto , and on motion Ordered to tu entrfad for Regestrationul Amist. Jonathan Pickett Clark Smith County Court State of Tennessee Smith County Registers office, Carthage, 28th day of June 1824. I hereby certify that the within deed of conveyance from Nathaniel W. Williams to David Burford, and the foregoing probate for registration has been duly recorded in my office, the day and year before written in Book H & page 44405 David Burford Reg of Smith County

