Page 1

The following text is a continuation of the fourth page of the letter. Your father is at home - You know he has been elected to Congress again & if the Tenn. members are admitted, I may go to Washington during the winter & so will be near you. All send love - much love to "Pick" May God bless you, love- Your Mother, most affec'ly- The preceding text is a continuation of the fourth page of the letter. Knoxville. Sept. 26th. 1865 My darling Washburn, You have been out on the ocean, all bravely, since I saw you - I wonder if a view of the open sea, incontrollable save by its maker, vast & sublime, has the same effect upon you, as it has upon me. I never weary with looking upon it - it never becomes common, or of an everyday appearance, so as to attract no attention from me I do not know what might be the result of looking upon it day after day, without a glimpse of land to relieve the eye, by a change. I started out, beautifully, I see, three days ago, Washburn dear, & was interrupted, & there it stopped. Nothing of special interest has occurred since then, except a letter from "the Col." & our poor Jimmy. Edward insists that he is very hard at work at our State Capital, & also, that it is very hard for him to see Jim Brownlow married

Page 2

without doing likewise - & in the same breath, he wisely assures us that he will not marry until he can support a wife. Poor, Edward he is invited to act as one of Jim's grooms men, next Thursday, Oct. 3rd. Mip Haipee is to be there, as his partner, & Capt. Thomas & Mary Brownlow are to be the other attendants. The brial party will come to Knoxville in a week or two, & won't there be conversation at the Govenor's house? Edward also writes that he has heard of you from young Fletcher, who has full house. He complains of you not writing him much, but he is very proud & very fond of his Naval brother. I hope he will come home & settle himself to study & work, see your father's office, before long, & never tire until he has a profession that will yield him a livelihood, & give him a character. Saturday night - 8 1/2 o'clock. My poor letter! Here it lies, & I had hoped it would be half way to you cye, by this time. We have had

Page 3

an unexpected visit, today, from Fletcher himself, who has just started for his school, again. I was very glad to see him & hope he will get to you safely. And you have been to see one Kinsfold in Vermont & Mass. I am truly glad you improved the opportunity, to do so. You found a vacancy in Vermont, that can never be filled again for us. I hardly desire to go there any more. I hope you saw the remaining ones, there especially your two aunts, Rehea & Mila. And I hope you met your Uncle Randolph tho' your time was too limited, probably, for you to visit at his home, Ytown. And did you go to Beverly, & find your Uncle Tracy confined with a broken leg? Of course, you took Westboro' in your way, & did you go to Hopkinton to see what your cousin Addie calls "the prodigy," that has recently made its appearance there? And did you stop in N. York, long enough to call at Uncle's & your cousin John's? All these

Page 4

things I would like to know, & a thousand & one things more, about yourself & your last cruise. We have had wild times here, with rebels - Our returned soldiers, who have been fighting so long for the Union, & who were driven away from their houses, at first, have no fridays for "sicesh." Have you heard that Abner Baker shot Will Hall & killed him? He was put into the jail but in a short time our soldier boys went in a body to the jail took him out & hanged him. This so much alarmed remaining rebels that they fled several of them, that night, & they are still going. Bob Armstrong, Hugh & Min. French, Jim White, Charles M'Clung, (son of Hugh,) Frank Moses, John Willies & Cook Dannie, & Mr. Craighead & his hopeful son James, all left, at once others are going as soon as they can settle affairs & get their families away. You know they used to say that the Union men & " You there" men could not live here together, & they former now take them at their word, & send them away, rather hurriedly. I hope we will have quiet, happy times, again, are long. I have been to "Freesoil" Campbell Co. & spent nearly three weeks. Jimmy is still there, watching his ducks & rooster & a small pig that has just been added to his treasures. A school has recently opened in Harudeen Y'cduey & he must come home & commence attending it. Hellen Carey is with us attending the sustitute. Her sister Miss Bitter is one of the teachers. Ann Mary, also, attends school

Page 5

Your mother, in her anxiety to send you a memento by Ms. Fletcher has taken her burn skin relief from a basket & during that I enclose it with this letter in a large envelope - It is hardly the kind of thing for a greet reading ergo & perhaps you will buy it aride away you dash suber. to be brought out mentions her after, for snow or sking it very suit. Brother if as hope to see you by midwinter. In the summertime, do write again us a narration of your voyage up Solera Seeder's Bay - Every thing from you know interests us all & is read wth an anxiety

Page 6

that of itself would make it worse visiting. Let us know how you spent your shirt time, short kinder you saw, & what pleasures you enjoyed. Things go us here asmuch as in order is gradually taking the plan of compasion & things are dockying back to their old runnings - Jeffereson, you will be justly occupied the cunning you - in holding on to what you have gained - Do your best, Let every effort, great & small, be as good as you can make it - In this way you can steadily improve & grow - Solve the weighty problems of life but the solution be correct. Kindly & truly Horace Maynard Hon. H. Maynard President

