Page 1

Hon. David Burford Sumner County Tennessee From Winson Edney Apt for engrosing clerk to Senate

Page 2

Nashville September 10th 1831 Hon Sir It is with some degree of diffidence I presume to address you by way of letter being an entire stranger to you. Though I flatter myself with the hope that when the object of my communication is fully made known to you it will at least measurably atone for so unceremonious an introduction. I am as you perhaps have already learned, a candidate for Engrossing clerk to the Senatorial Branch of the General Assemby of this State, of which you have the honour to be a member. This is as much as I deem absolutely incumbent on me to say on the subject, particularly to a member of soprise, enlightened, and honourable a Body. If, after investiation and deliberation, or an interview in which I should be happy to participate before the House convene, you should find me worthy of your promotion and judge me to be competent to the important service of engrossing the acts of the Senate. I should accept the favour of such an honour with the determined resolution of discharging the duties incumbent on me with the utmost degree of punctuality and despatch and with credit to myself and the approbation of the members individually and collectively. Be pleased to accept these lines as a plain and candid echibition of the subject matter of my epistle, and if in the moriety of applications, and hosts of applicants you should permit my name and humble pretentions not to suffer entire obvlivion and oversight, I shall perceive myself as having achieved something.

Page 3

considering the Public Square as an Arena Gymnasium, or Palaestra, the Court House the Comitia or place of noting the candidate as Athlete, Champions or Combatants for the Grecian and Roman prizes or honours and the members of the Senate, the Dramatis personae, we may be enabled to figure to ourselves a considerable, diversified, and grand theatrical exhibition, in the true spirit of Greece and Rome, but remodified, amended, and made almost entirely new, by a brilliant and amplified American edition performed in the exalted spirit and gesticulation of modern refinement. I am Sir in sentiments of sincere respect and esteem Your humble Servant Winson Edney Hon. David Burford

