Page 1

Via Chattanooga & Nashville Maj D. Burford Dixons Springs, Smith Count Tennessee From Jo. W. Allen dated 29 May & rec'd 6 June 54 Containing Statement of Nashville loan at New Orleans Ke for me and 6 June

Page 2

New Orleans May 29 th 1854 Maj. D Burford Dear Sir, I enclose you a statement of the desposition I have made of your money. I have loaned it to my brother James for 12 months with the understanding that if you wish to have it for any longer time he is to have the preference on continuting the same sincerity. He has executed a mortgage on his plantation at Thirty nine negroes worth at a fair valuation $100,000. To share you the faith I have in the security it is only necessary to tell you that I have loaned him Six thousand dollars of my own money his whole indebtedness including your doll and & mine is $39,000 his crop this year at the present low price will bring him about $20,000 after paying overseer and all other expenses. He prefers borrowing this money from us to coming under obligations to Commissioners charts and paying their charges for accepting and the exhoribitant rate of interest it costs them to raise money. he Can pay you & I look from his crop in live years and will raise yours fro you at the end of 12 months if you require it. The mortgage is recorded in the office of A Mazureau notary public No 22 Camp Street N Orls and James takes a cofey home with him today to have it recorded in his own parish which he will have certified and return to me. I have your note and will keep that and the copy of the mortgage. You must give

Page 3

me timely notice next spring whether you will want the money paid up or renewed. I hope you will be pleased with the disposition I have made of your funds I am certain if you was here you would not under existing circumstances be willing to invest in Commercial paper. There were two failures day before yesterday. Moses Greenwoods and Wright Williams, of the latter, the largest cotton house in New Orleans their liabilities are nearly two million dollars and there is no telling who may be affected by their failure. I have never seen as much distrust and uneasiness unarifested in Commercial Circles as exists here now. I enclose you a slip from the Delta of yesterday relative to this failure. The Banks would have sustained the house (SSH) if they had have had any security to offer that would have been considered good but they had none. The thirty nine negroes in the mortgage are all field hands able bodied no zoan old negroes or children in it. I leave here for home on the 19 th of June. will be here long enough to receive a letter from you. Your friend Jos W Allen

Page 4

Copy of note in my possession belonging to D Burford New Orleans May 23 rd 1854 $16070 Twelve months after date I promise to pay David Burford on order Sixteen thousand and Seventy Dollars value rec'd with interest at the rate of eight per cent per annum from maturity until paid. Payable at the Canal and Banking Co New Orleans Signed James G Allen The following text is a continuation of the second page of the letter. So Vier alur Hm azurean Notary Public

