Page 1

MR. W. T. KENNERLY, Knoxville, P.O.Box 56., Tenn., U.S.A.

Page 2

postal stamp

Page 3

Manila P. I. Sept 2nd 1900 Mr W. T. Kennerly Dear Nephew It is with much pleasure that I acknowledge the receipt of your always welcome letter. Well Travis news with me is a Scarce Article as I am here in Manila in Charge of a Detachment of 37 men who are doing guard at the residence of Gen Bates and over the Regimental Propperty Stored here. I am pleasantly located and am in good health. My Duties here are light as I only have to keep a morning report Draw rations for the Detachment and make out the Guard and other Details. Geurilla warfare is carried on with great loss to our troops of late. The 15 th Infantry a few days after getting here was Ambushed in Laguna Province together with one Company of the 27 th and our loss was 24 killed and 18 wounded some of whom have since died. Assination seems to be another of their new moves as nearly every day or night some native who has been Loyal to the Americans is found manila or some of the

Page 4

outlying towns minus his head. These are certainly hard people to convince of the fact that we intend to rule them. General Pis Del. Pilar who was captured sometime ago and who signed the Amnesty Bill was given his freedom only to be caught here in Manila with an insurgent Officer hatching up more trouble. They are both studying out their Cussedness behind the Bans of Anda Street Prison. The Native Police Capt here who was more Spanish than Philipeno was assasinated on the street one night and other Native Police have been done away with since then. There is a move to take place in a few days from Imus South and I expecte they will sweep out the country. One of our Captains (McTuiston) who was in command of "M" Company went "Nutty" and shot a Sergeant of the Company dead and wounded two other men and was himself killed by a private. I consider that it was the best shot that has been fired in three Islands as the Officer was hated by every man. Well Travis I still intend to come back but at Present I have an Idea of going to Frisco and enlisting in the 7 th Infantry stationed in Alaska and getting a four months furlough. I don't know for certain but that is my intention at Present. Your Uncle "Bob"

