Page 1

Midn. Washburn Maynard U.S.S. Constitution Newport R.I.

Page 2

Murfreesboro.' Tenn. March 13th 1863 Dear Brother, I received from you one day last week a letter containing your carte de visite and it is I think a very good likeness of my sailor boy - How much I do wish I was with you I can not now be satisfied in the Army. Still if I can not get to the Naval School I would like to go into the Regular Army, one of the two professions of arms must be mine - I have not heard from father or mother for some time. I suppose that Congress has adjourned and that father is on his way here and where our mother now is I cam at a loss to know. Duty is now all the go - I am on duty as "Officer in Charge" of pickets at least once a week and sometimes twice - Then we have little trips to make every now and then - Work sometimes on the fortifications and sometimes in unloading trains of provisions and ammunition - Yesterday I had from our Regt. 130 men on picket The Col. with 225 was gone to Versailles

Page 3

to guard a supply train and one Capt. and twenty five men were at the R.N. depot unloading supply trains. And there were only 430 men reported for duty in the Regt. So you see it was nearly all at work. I was at Nashville one day last week. I there saw Lt. Col. Jas. P. Brownlow - He was well. He says their Regt. has duty to do also - Jim took Pryor Harris of Knoxville prisoner with his own hand - and got from him a horse worth 500 dollars - I met one of my Westboro schoolmates here - It was Geo. Stone sone of Jonas - He is a member of the 19th Illinois Infy - Parson Brownlow was here a few days ago He talks of starting his paper in Nashville I hope he will for then our Tenn Regts. will get their full share of praise. The First and Second E Tenn. Infy. have left us and gone back to Ky. I wish we could follow them - Because I believe that that is the nearest route home and because as we know every path in those mountains we can do a great amount of damage to our enemies while here we work all the time and accomplish very little - Genl. Rosecrans says our Regt. is the best disciplined in his Army

Page 4

and that from him and of so many Regiments amounts to a great deal. Our folks got badly picked up at or near Spring Hill last week - Almost the whole of four Regts. of Infantry were taken. 1300 certainly were taken - One of the Regts. was with us all last summer and on our retreat from the Gap - The 33rd Indiana - It lost 445 men killed wounded & prisoners - Every little while however we take a batch of Butternuts and send them one North. I think a forward move is intended soon as the signs are right. When we do start rebs. cannot stop us easily and unless their force is much larger than I think it is not at all. Well I have no news of importance to give you please write at once to me - With much love I close - Your afftc Brother Edward Maynard Lieut. Col. 6th E. T. Vols -

