Page 1

Knoxville. Nov. 16. 1860. Hon. George S. Hillard Dear Sir, I wrote, the other day, to Mr. Laut giving my apprehensions of the present state of public affairs. Returning home, last night from a court in an adjoining county I found a pile of Northern papers, which I have read with a painful interest, & none of them with more, than the last two Nos. of the Courier. It is manifest that you in the North, have no jest of conception of the state of things in the South. Possibly you may recollect that when I was with you, I urged you to give every possible vote against Lincoln, so that if he were not defeated, if (the vote) would be an arguement against the disunionists, who, I was satisfied would rally in that event. My worst fears are more than realized. You ought to know that in the gulf or cotton states, there has been for years a large number of educated & pretty influential men who have been laboring to effect a dispolution of the union as a result in their opinion, evivently desirable to those states. Their great

Page 2

difficulty has been to bring the people to their way of thinking. To accomplish this result, they have been most diligent using every means, in the language of Mr. Gauley's Slaughter Letters "To fire the Sourthern heart & instruct the Southern mind." the Republican Party was a God send to them. John Brown & Helper most efficient co-workers. by their efforts the Democratic Party was disrupted, as the Whig Party was, & as the American Party was crushed out. All summer long, they have proclaimed the election of Lincoln, sufficient cause for disunion, & have labored, indirectly, to effect that object, believing that they would be able to make it in the popular estimation the casus of the catastrophe. They are now most busily at work, to accomplish their long desired purpose. At the North you say "how are they going to set about it"? Easily enough, with a majority of the people on their side. A Resolution, in the nature of a Declaration of Independence - a Conceation to form a Constitution the election of Officers under it - & it is done. And once done, always done. there will be no re-union. Any attempt at coercion will be madleys

Page 3

& wickidays. Every man in the South is a soldier & even the negros would fight as they did in the Revolutionary I see it suggested that the government might blockade the Southern ports. The South would be a government de facto & as such, would be recognized by the other Powers, who would hail the strife with joy. Of course, their befsels being neutral would not be excluded, & if attempted, you have war with England & France. It is, also, asked where she would get her revenue? An export duty on cotton would supply it; & a discrimiation in favor of foreign bottoms, would be a hard blow to our Northern commerce & manufactures. Imports free, would require a cordon of custom Houses from ocean to ocean, to prevent the whole Northern & Northwestern protion of the government being supplied with foreign merchandise from the South. In the event of recession, I feel certain that Tennessee would join the South, also N. Carolina, Missouri, Kentucky, & Virginia probably would not at present. But unlys petted as the eufaus gatis of the government, & all their humors gratified they would at any moment leave & join the South.

Page 4

Now, this is the fight that the Union men of the South have on hand. And what are our Northern friends doing for us? Why, trying to persuade us that Republicanism, in the person of Mr. Lincoln is not so bad a thing, after all, & in the same breath, speaking of the recession movements as mere temporary ebullitions of disappointment as a political defeat. If we ever had any sympathizers among your readers, this sort of writing would seem quiet likely to abate their interest in our struggles. It is, also, intimated that some of our men will have places in the new Cabinet God forbid! Do you suppose we could fight disunion, with our leaders held as hostages in the camp of the common enemy? The charge that we are in sympathy with that party, has already cost us thousands of votes, all over the South. With Mr. Bill or Mr. Ribes in Lincoln's Cabinet, we should, at once, be assimilated to the tories of the Revolution, & crushed out without mercy. I coufys to a most grievous disappointment at the Northern vote. True, you have beaten Burlingame, the pet monkey of the Abolitionism, but you have also beaten Thayer, because he would not go all lengths of his party; & have elected a Govenor of the Garrison-

Page 5

Phillips - Parker school of Abolitionists - while the state is hopelessly going to the Republicans. New York has done even worse. New Jersey has defeated Gov. Pennington, but he was the least obnoxious of his party. This is a very poor showing of conservatism North, for us to appeal to, when we beg our people to pause before final action. There, the defiant, juring town of the Republican press, in keeping with the spirit of taunt & insult that has characterized a portion of the Northern parpers, for many years, whenever they have spoken of the South & her people, is a perpetual annoyance to us. These paragraphs thrown into our faces, as we appeal to our people to wait for the action of the new administration before we take ground, till against us, tremendously. Now they have conquired us, why, in Heaven's name, can they not be discreet, if not magnanimous? The truit is, that there is one very prominent element of Southern character, which Northern people generally can neither appreciate nor understand, simply because they do not have it themselves - I mean the sense of honor, I have no better word for it, & yet

Page 6

it will hardly convey the exact idea - perhaps sensibility to insult will do better. This is unfortunate in two respects - it leads them to submit to insults to the disparagement of their own character in the estimation of Southern people, & it does not restrain them from giving gross & wanton insults, which, without doing any good, are more offensive than positive injuries. but I must beg your pardon for this long letter. I have almost lost the use of the pen & have written it with infinite difficulty - & only because I am greatly troubled at the gloomy prospect before us. As a nation, I fear our days are numbered. Dii prohibite minas - I am truly Yours,

