Page 1

To The President and Board of Trustees of the University of Tennessee. Gentlemen, At the request of Dr. to N. Dabney the Woman's Association of the State University was organized on the 22nd day of May. 1895. the object of which should be to take active interest in the Woman's Department; awaken the sympathies of the people throughout the state in the cause of co-education, and to secure funds for the erection of a Woman's Building on the University grounds. Owing to the stringency of the times, all efforts to secure funds by individual subscription were abandoned in the early summer. In June 1893 the Trustees unanimously voted to admit women to all departments of the University. At the request of Dr. Dabney, Mrs. McKinney, Mrs. Perkins, and

Page 2

Mrs. French on June 6 1893, at the close of Mr. James Lane Allen's address in Science Hall, spoke briefly on the subject of higher education, and the objects and needs of the Woman's Associations, just formed. During the year, under the auspices of this Association, a reception was rendered the women students, three five lectures were given in Science Hall and a Shakespearian recital, which netted the Association a small fund through the influence of this Association A Literary Society was formed by the women students, called " The Barbara Blount Society, and we are glad to say, on the whole, creditable work has been done. We note milk satisfaction the number of young women who have associated themselves of the ppartementries offered at this institution and in feel assured of the success of

Page 3

this moment. We believe that interest in the cause of co-education is increasing in this city as well as in other sections of the state. Last June the Trustees set apart and fitted up a special building for the use of the women students, which has been rendered more comfortable and attractive by the work of the Woman's Association, and the gift of a number of pictures from the citizens of Knoxville. The experience of the past year has shown that self-government has not been entirely successfull and we would recommend. 1st That some plan be advised by which a competent woman be placed in charge of the Woman's Building, whose authority shall be recognized by the women students. 2nd That a more close adherence be made to the age requirement, and

Page 4

examination in the matriculation of women students. Perhaps it would be proper to add that the association hopes during the coming year to prevent our imperative needs to the State Legislation in such a way as to secure recognition and practical aid. Respectfully submitted Lizzie N. Williams Rec. Sec. Annie B. McKinney Prest.

Page 5

memorial of Ladies University Society desiring a lady Professor June 12/94

