Page 1

To./ James W. Bradlord Esq. New Orleans La -

Page 2

Pueblo Mexico. Augst 7th 1847 My Dear Sir Your several kind letters, with the packages are recieved, for which please accept my thanks. I am placed under many obligations to you for attentions so grateful. the Whigs seem to think it necessary to keep up their fire against me all the time. If the Democracy loved me, or the Whigs hate me I should consider myself on the high road to destruction And indeed it would seem they had some fear of that sort, else, why persecute me & traduce my character, while I am in a foreign country fighting - (not the Whigs) - but the common enemy of our country. But I ought not to complain at the exercise of a habit, so fixed and iterate by long usage & a consistent appetite as to have become necessary for the very existance of these defamers. There are many conductors of the Whig press, who are high minded, honorable Gentlemen - who can appreciate merits & Gallantry , even in a political Advirsary; But There are a few unprincipled hollow hearted hypocrites & political knaves, who mask themsevles under false colors, by claiming to conduct neutral processes, while they pour out their malignant hate against all those likely to occupy a little public attention who do not agree with them in sentiments. Among this

Page 3

class is the vindictive Editor who conducts the Picayune. He has escaped long enough, unwhipped of public justice - should be stripped of his assumed neutrality, and exposed to the world as an assassin of character & a political knave who attempts to add additional poignancy to his shafts of malice by professions which are false in facts. I have observed with surprise and astonishment the liberty taken in the use of my named, to a letter professing to be a reply to the batallion of the committee of your citizens, to attend the festivities given by the citizens of New Orleans in honor of the vetericy volunteers on th e10th May last. I never saw the letter until the mail (just reached here), arrived - The letter is not mind - nor are its sentiments or opinions - I did not write it - nor authorize any one else to do so, or to write in my behalf or in use my name - I cannot father its now - nore can I allow any friend to use such liberties with my name- I have written to the Editor of the Delta disclaiming the letter, but fearing that tletter may not have safely arrived, I mention the subjects here, & must trouble you to have the writter placed properly before the public. Sinse writing to the Delta

Page 4

I have received no less than 6 letters -(all by the mail brought up by Genl. Pierces column)- from the Gentleman who wrote it as he says ( friend I have no doubts Truly) - from considerations of kindness & notions of frienship which I fully appreciate, but which nontheless do not reconcile me to remainl silent with such consequences to my reputation as must logistically follow the ascriptions of such sentiments to me. I deem it proper, however, for the present to withhold the name of the author - trusting that his friendship for me will not lead here again to any similar acts of indiscretion. It is an abuse of my rights, & a violation of my opinions, in connection with a subject of national intent, which in my present position would be improper in me to tolerate for one moment, if no other objection properly existed. Your son is a highly honorable Gentleman - is a gallant young office, whom I am proud to have in my command. He has been quite sick, but now better & though sick I mean to take him forward with me on the march to the capital my Division will march in the morrow - In 15 days we will be in possession of the renown Capital of Mexico. Your Friend Gid. J. Pillow

