Page 1

From John Sevier Colonel George Washington Sevier Knoxville Tennessee

Page 2

Washington 27th June 1813 Dear Sir Yours of the 7th instant has just come to hand, also on from Dr. Rgea dated many day laster come to hand at same time. I am very glad indeed that you and Mr Rhea have taken the measures you both advise me of as to the subject of my land in Overton and the affair of Hill - they are laying every scheime in their powers to get that property out of my hands by some rogueish scheime or other, I must contrive me a new scheime if i love to see you again in order to have all the duty on that property earned carried up to the Federal court, and not longer be presented in the State Courts. The Chesapeak is full of British shiping and troops near Norfolk, but have roughly handled in so doing: four or five boats were sunk and as many taken in a number killed and wounded and taken prisoner. It is said that nearly two whole companies deserted themselves and came over our lines with the armies, fleets, and no clothes. Our boats are lined with the armies fleets, and no doubt they will make grand executions in every quarter - Our troops have been vry successful in Canada. We have taken nearly every garrison and place of importance in the uper canada, but not without some loss, but such was to be expected. I have written your on the 4th of this instant, and forward you the news papers by navy mail -- we are on the true triumph which seems to go on very slowly and will take us much time -- I have become quite sick being so much from home. and was I there again I should

Page 3

again I should be very unwilling to leave it. I am so confined on the Military committee, that I am seriously fined but were to write theire is only seven of us, and almomst every thing relative to that all important subject, is said before that committee, and to make arrangements for the defence of our extensive frontier on both sides, is an immense undertaking indeed --- we have heard nothing lately from the North - Regmt. Dearborn has become very lightly and have resigned - Sco Smith I am informed has arrived in lyes, town, this evening - I shall go to see him this morning. I shall and argue to have your with your regiment sent north already. As you seem to wish-- It is very uncertain as to our destiny, but think at anyrate it will not last longer than the next month, and so forth and come home afterwards, I shall do it. Col Sparks letter of the 18th instant have coments heard on yesterday, and am glad to hear he is so much better - I fear the warm ofering will be good for him, to whixh place I understand he intends going - Make my affectioate respects to your mother, ( tho I hear nothing from her for a long time) and all the best of our friends - The President is much indefined for about two weeks past and in my opiniion hes in danger. tho the Doctors say hi is better, but I have my fears - General Hapmtion have gone to the north, and wilkinson is ex-pected here every day on his way to the same place - I am now writing late in the night - advise - Yours affectionatly - John Sevier P. S. I expect your lace trimming here from Dr Your every day - Sco Sevier

