Page 1

Camp "Joe Cooper" Near Knoxville Feby. 7 1864 Dr. Brother, I recieved your letter on the 4 Ins'r as I returned from town where I had been to spend my twenty first birth day with mother - Col. Joe and I walked to town on the 3rd in time to be there for dinner - Mother gave me a much better dinner than I supposed could be procured in the land of Poverty and Patriotism, at this particular stage of the game - We had roast Turkey, Oyster soup, chicken pie, Tomatoes, potatoes bread, butter, pickles, Jelly, cake, pie and blanc mange- So you see that to one used to hard tack and sombilly it certainly was a feast of good things - While in town I called on Mrs. Alexander but found them "not at home" I also called on Mr. and Mrs. O.P. Temple and finding Sue and Era Boyd there remained until about the we small hour of twelve - Sue is a splended girl, not beau

Page 2

tiful, but a very fine companion, and Er is not far behind her - Sue Boyd bids fair to become the best musician in Knoxville as she now is by long odds the finest singer. They were both glad to seeme and of course I had a fine time. I have not yet seen Rose Trigg nor will I as she is gone North to live - she is said to be a beautiful gir. I met Bill Rogers as she was riding out the other day but she did not recognize this - I shall go and call and tease her about it - Katie Baxter is a very pleasant girl I have been with her some, Debra Baxter will be the finest looking woman in town when she is grown. Mary Caig will be a very find looking girl too - I have not seen Bella Cowan tho I have called at their house - I saw only Miss Mary and Mr. Cowan - I have seen none of the Alexanders not even on the street - In fact I have seen none of the she Rebels of under age except Blannie McClung and Martha Siltrell - We did not recognize each other then and I am sure

Page 3

not to do so now - I understand that Blannie says if I should call on her she should certainly receive me and be glad to see me - I saw Joseph H. Martin once as he passed on the street but in such as circmstances I could do nothing, Father was with me and if he did not choose to take up his own quarret I certainly would not do so in his presence - Old hypocriticus has been sent many down in Dixie now however - As mean a man as Martin is old McKinney father of the immortal Grinner and if they do not send him South or pen him up in some way I'll shoot him if I hang for it - And there is no danger of that under the present Rule - I can give you few facts of interest - We are camped on the road to Armstrong's Ferry about 4 miles above town - We have built log cabins and are in winter Quarters - Our hourses are all sent to Kentucky to be fed until the Summer campaign opens - the Rebels run in pretty close every few days but not close enough to disturb our repose, in

Page 4

fact men who can sleep in cannister range of an enemy's battery while a fight is going on care little for a few scouting Cavalry - Ben is now with me while Tom is in Darry. Scaggs barter shop in town - I made this change because Ben answers me as well as Tom while we are so near town and Tom can make more in town than he can here - Jerry my other boy is with my horese - He is a bully boy and I don't see how I could do without him - Ben is a good boy - a little on the religious style - but faithful and all right you understand I know - Ben gives some funny tales of your fishing in Powell after I went to Ky and tells of a piece of tobacco being found in your pocket etc. etc. Well if I can make a raise I'll send you twenty Dollars but still I am not sure I can git it as the Pay master has not been seen for nearly four months - If you need a little sum every little while I could rewit a trifle of twenty five or thrity dollars or perhaps Fifty every payday - Ace our folks are well - My Regt is in good health and spirits - Our Brigadier has got his foot in it or rather charges and Spicis

Page 5

fixations are preferred and his Court Martial commences Tuesday - Sr. Col. Keith Provost Marshal General of East Tennessee is sending squads of Rebels south every few days Mrs. Kain, Miss Nancy Scott, Mrs. Hamilton, Mrs. Eckle, A.S. Maxwell, J. H. Martin & fam Harrison and fam - Rev. Imean, Red - charlie McClung and wife and others are already gone (Dr. Doak &c) while many more are under marching and are ordered to be ready at a moments warning - Many a D-d rascal comes up whining and begging to be allowed to take the oath who ought to be in H-l but I pity them they look so deject mean and wilt - While a man who has weathered the storm and stood firm looks seven feet across the breast at least. Our church is a hospital they only have preaching at the Episcopal now - I have not heard a sermon in fifteen months and can't tell when Ill get to hear another Feby 14 i am at home and it

Page 6

is Sunday morning so of course to church I go - And Mary is well and in high spirits as she has just passed her 9 Birthday - Mother is well and she still thinks that you are quite slow in answering her letters - the will of of th God's are grinding here and are grinding toleralely fine - Many are one has minged his way to the sunny south and after to a warmer glive than sunshine can give - Brig Gen. Spears is now being tried by Court Martial and I guess he will be dismissed to all which say "God be praised and the Congregation will join in saying Amen" - But I must close - Write and write it as soon as possible - Your brother Ed. Sr col. &c

