Page 1

Miuate Nashville Aug. 30th 1844 Dr. Sir I received your letter postmarked Greenville several days ago - & having been looking out for an explosion a spuhalran has been at home - but he has since left with saddle bags - & hener suppose we may having nothing yet a which or the Town mother. I find very few of our friends here have heard any thing about the true notion of the core. Foster tell or is telling a few of his friends - I have told some three or four of mine but even some of Toms best friends here do not offer to have had any introduction from him that you would make any question of wraity with him. Fatheroffer, I find had talked to Taws told him what he hend in P. Ten. Norwell 6.6. was informed, but now I do not know first; but he is now understood to be one of Jones' most hunted & confidented advises. I have talked with Norwell I told him that he must not allow Jones to publish any thing offensive to gone feeling, should the Union come out with the chief but to let the mother lie say for the present at Cert, & news to be taken up goin unless absolutely necessary. I infer from conversing with Zolliciffer that he is under the impression, how go I know not; nor to or the idea why directly conveyed to me that you would not be able to show by the proofs you are supposed to have in your possession that Jones said anything about a widow or the turning out of a widow - but merely that he had said to on of Genl. J. upon some auosion joululy that he Tour was a gnoln man in the Church than the Genl. & if he did not take care he would time him out - or something to that effect. Jones said to me he posen of lele Norwell in a conversation

Page 2

on the state of the cause in e. Ten that he had understood that you were making statements about him probably which he did not like & said he had written to two of his friends on the subject - He also was or oppressed to be in a dehumous about. I supposed his about went to bring out army Mag I know or had heard upon the subject. I said you had alluded to the subject in conversing with me, but that you had expressed no ill feeling toward him whatever yore night have felt - yore expressed none & I believed regretted much that there should be any cause of controversy between you. I moreover advised him that I thought it most prudent for the party & all concerned that moderation & good feeling should if possible, be preserved at least, for the present. Upon the whole I think it morifent that Jones is uneasy - & that his plan at present is to deter you from any attack on him by holding out to your friend his obilily to get the better of you. It is your letter to him on this subject that he must relive tho, he did not tell me the contents of it. In fort he was reserved with me - not seeming to know whether to take me or his friend or entry - In which he was rights, for tho, I am not his enemy, I can near regard him as my friend or trust him, often his treatment to me since his itutiu I observe in your preface or dedication of the Book you have published that you stab that You. Jones was the only man who had the boldness in 1834 to come out ossurly for blay in this stols for which you give him gud satd. Now I do not know that this stotmuld is attacking it will attract the public notion, but I am curious to know when & how you got such information. For not not only in 1839 - but in my spuibir genrelly, with in

Page 3

1837- 8-& 7 - but uprolly in 1839, I scaily made a spuh not me, I now believe ( & I made fifty or more that year I expect) he which I did not defend the blay & hold him or the probabl audedet of our perly in 1840 - or that he weaseld he - Not only 20 I visited that one persued every where should take that stand or he must effuled in seaney the elulious in that qur I not only spoke of Mr Celay or our most leading man and on our next audideh but actually were out a set of dauned nerly in defending him against this deaf of leafani Gl I remember well that I conowed Dr. McClory's powerful bound in red calf welcoming all McClay eudred or published in 1829.8. this is a little moth but still I cannot saw wupu to her open my course in 1834 - not proper to be notified or repoured now - but at some future time if I shall be formed to have ailed the port I claim to have ailed. I not only spoke but wrote much in 1839 in defence of Mr. Celay. A. A. Hall proper at that period will sha the course I look make strup. A long diologue between a member of Casil of raform which apprend at that time was written by me. You may perain that I have some surpaseer that Jones informed you that I was not out for Alay in 1839 - You will know whether I do him injintes. I was not the only more openly for Celay in 1839, If I am not nortok Lul. Chelhor we lewy member of leaph whe coneed his Anhut Yoursm Truly W. G. Brownlow Esq. Jno Bell

Page 4

I lox you with double posbly fearing stuf if the letter is nicked pad it well we send it not to be delivered to you. & I fear to send it safely. I fear you will not get it any hand.

