Page 1

John Sevier Colonel George Washington Sevier Knoxville Tennessee

Page 2

Washington 22 January 1815 Dear Sir Your favor of the 8th instant has just come to Hand and am rejoiced to hear from you all, but am sorry to find that the Ulcer in your neck seems to continue so obstinate, You will have to be very careful how it is managed, and to be in time with it, no time ought to be lost. I am very glad to hear that Major M.Clellan have arrived, and hope his disorder will leave him now he has got home__ The Major is promoted to the 16 Regiment of Infantry commanded by Col. Pearce, and Now on the lines, was raised in Pensylvania. We have pafsed The bank bill, but it remains yet to be afronted to by The President. It is not believed it will be usefull to the Government, it has been modeled intirely by the Minority. additional Tax's is pro- posed by the Secretary of Treasury, probably to make up for the defiency in the bank, which wont affoarcs any Telie to the fiscal measures of Government. I need not give you any news from Orleans as you will hear from that place before we can. It is thought that there either have or will be, a number of black troops introduced into the Southern States. I fear we shall be much embarrassed Tasfsecting money to Supply the Army, and dont know in which way it can be guaranteed now

Page 3

Now the bank have so much failed, us before had calculated very much upon that institution, but the hope is blasted___ This supposed We must have Recourse to Treasury notes, and it is to be feared that so much paper will soon become Much depreciated __ I wish you to write Col. Sparks & Rutha to bring off their Negroes & property as Quick as possible, and while they can pass in safety through the Indian Country. I shall be very uneasy about them till they arrive and shall fear much on their account. I have observed what you say respecting my suit at Moabile, and shall Sense on by this mail a power to William making him my attorney in fact. Shall also write General Gains to have an eye to the business, and wish you also to do the same___ I dont apprehend there is any danger of your Regiment being transferred, as to the Col. that wants to be at the head of it, I cant believe any thing like that of a Gentleman___ The Secretary of War has been dangerously ill, and yet very much indisposed, so that no business can be transacted in that department, I shall use all possible means to do something to settle that business with Kings executon__ I wish M. Rhea could make some sales__ He wrote me some time ago he had made some, to the amount of four or five hundred dollars, and expected to make more__ If you dont come on until First of april, I suppose I shall not have an opportunity of getting My mail __ I am still enjoying good health, but clearly surround ed with sickness __ Y. affectionate father My affectionate illegible to all our Friends Col. Sevier John Sevier

Page 4

PS. Major A Sevier have set out for Charleston So. Carolina, and from there to N.Orleans &take command of the Marines 23. This morning the snow in some deep, and in common half. we have not as much wood for 10 or 12 fire places as would make one fire for my room at home, nor do the House Keeper know where to get one single cord. for my own pail I expect perhaps Secured some coal from The Russian Minister, otherways by night we shall have no fire.

