Page 1

Camp near Carthage April 20th 1863 Dear Pick, "I long have thought my youthful friend A something to have sent you Tho' it may serve no other end Than just a kind memento" - So said Burns poet farmer of Scotria's hills - I like to write to my friends and to hear from them - You see by this that we no longer lie looking on the dreary site of Murfreesboro' - We came to this place on Apr. 4th after a hard forced march from M. which place we left on the 2nd - One need has come to hand since here we landed and I received

Page 2

several letters but looked in vain for your familiar hand - One was from father at Washington, one from Mille at S. Hadley and one from Aleck Kennedy at Louisville Ky - a classmate of mine at Knoxville in which he says he saw at that place Charles Coffin Jim Craighead - Young Legg and Tillery going North in search of their rights under a guard, having been taken at Somerset in Carter's fight with Pegram - Charley said they could not have been whipped, but they ran out of powder and lead. He says Jim Craighead looked as if he were dead.

Page 3

Could I have seen those boys as prisoners I would have treated them as best I could for old acquaintance sake - I wish I could come and see you I would give you some funny incidents that take place - Could you see this place you would think it enjoyed the pleasures of war - It looks like a widow womans farm but still is in much better whack than Murfreesboro where there is not a rail to tell there ever was a fence - Genl. Cullom whom you used to see in Washington lives here - I have not seen him as he is a violent rebel but I think I shall go and see him -

Page 4

There is not nearly as much duty here as there was at Murfreesboro - and we have a pleasant camp but still it does not suit me. I never will be content to be idle at a place when I should be with my command in the field. I want to get back to Ky. where I know the country and can do some devilment to the Rebs. I employ my leisure time in writing, reading Byron, Burns, and all works on the army and its doings that I can find. Our men are tolerably well and in good spirits. Our Regt. is the best in this Brigade in drill and discipline - There is no news that I can find out now so I close - Write soon Your brother Edward -

