Page 1

Knoxville Dc the 3 1863 Dear Wife in a hurry I seat myself this morning to write you a few lines to let you no where I am and what I am doing I am at Knoxville at this time and have ben here for 20 days, and, we have bin fighting the rebles all the time. They have made for or five eferts to tak Knoxville and they cant do it at least they have not done it yet. I expect you have heard that we have bin Captured a dozen times but you will here that from the Rebels evry day we have plenty to Eat at this place at this time and I think we have sixty days Rations on hand yet. We belong to the rite wing of this Army.

Page 2

We have not bin ingaged much but some little the rebles have made some for or five charges on our breast works but we repulsed them every time we killed and taken prisoners the last charge one thousand they have got us surrounded on the North Side of the river but we have the South Side of the river we get forage from Sevr. County. we got good news this morning from Grant he has Whiped Brag to death . I will send you a Serkler that was published this morning and it will tell you all about it Em I will quit riting about the war. I no when you hear the canons roring it makes yor heart ache but I hop that I will be fortunate anoughf

Page 3

to get threwe this fight so I can get home to my beloved little family I think this thing will wind up before long. We have wiped them do death, below and I pray to God we will repulse them here. Em I will have to bring me few lins to a close I have bin well with the exception of my Eys they have bin very near out If they dont get better I will have to leav the Armey Kinses has resigned and I am the Capton of the Compay Em Oh that I could be at home in this month the very time that I wanted to be at home I a afrad I cant be there If I cant get home Em do the best you can and I will come

Page 4

as times get so I can tell you mothor and all of the family howdy for me I this thing winds up here in 2 weaks from this time will be at home take cear of your self, your affectinal Husband R.A. Ragan tell your father to get that cern from fresh for you. Em pray for me in this struggle maby I will be fortunat to get thrwe I never have sean Father or the boys yet they ar at Connbler Gap If you can send me word how you are

