Page 1

Mecklenburg T. Apl. 5. 1852. Raymond & Fullerton Yours of the 27. March I received last mail containing statement of your account for B.B. & Co. with E.T. & G.R.R. I was not aware till I received it that I had over paid your accounts as much as on posting it up I find I did. I supposed there would be a deficit for interest which occured on cargoes delivered between their arrival & the payments as I made them. And after that amount was mutually & satisfactorily adjusted it may have been right for you then to have applied so much of the surplus as was agreed on between us to be due your house to the payment of that interest. It may have been an inadvertense in me to have allowed the surplus at all to have been paid but as between two agents of two respectable parties I hope you will concur with me in saying that all may yet be corrected as justice & good faith will demand I can make no approximation to the amt of your claim for interest & must beg you to give me the figures dates - amts, &c at as early a day as you can. The charge of loss on Bonds Sep. 19. 1851. is certainly not allowable as it was distinctly stipulated that par & interest should be allowed for them - which you admit yourself in your letter. I was prohibited by law from selling them below that. I wish to act fairly to you & justly to myself. Bailey Brothers & Co. I know from the character of the house would spurn any other course of conduct were they appealed to. I trust their agents are actuated by the same feelings.

Page 2

I hope this matter can be adjusted without an appeal to either B.B. & Co. or to the referees provided for in the contract between them & the E.T. & G.R.R. Co. Please therefore at once make an exhibit in plain figures showing times of arrival & dates of all my payments - adding on the U. side interest on sums prepaid by me. On this basis if I can count right the Co. owes you much less interest than the amount you have charged. Very Respectfully Your Obt. Servt. J.G.M. Ramsey. Did not send this letter but changed it to the form which appears in my journal of this date & sent it Apl. 7. 1852. J.G.M.R.

