Page 1

Dear wife Sunday has again come, and with it a favorable opportunity of writing how affairs returning from Church. During the past week the order was sent from the war Dipartment to Genl Early directing him to send Lt. Col Ian R Loree with the portions of the Legion with him to western North Carolina. I presume that he has recived it by this time. I telegraphed him to let the boys know that the order was on its way. Which I have no doubt will be good news to them. They have to travel, I am informed, sound 50 miles before they reach the

Page 2

Rail road. I shall be informed by telegraph when the Command raeches the Rail road. And I shall not leave him until I hear that it is safely on its way. I dont intend to leave it to depend upon any contingencies if I can guard against it The adjutant goal I am satisfied from information I received from one of his aids evidently had determined before I come home that my Legion should share the fate of all other Legions, be broken up and organized in Regiments and battalions so that they could be Brigade. And he as not well pleased

Page 3

with my success with the secretary of war and the President in getting my Legion permanantly established as a seperate organization, with the privilege of reporting to the Commanding Genrl, only Thus situated I had to have both quartermaster. and commissionary appointed. Capt Turill's appiontment not having been acted on by the senate within the time required by law caused him to be dropped from the roll of assistant quarter masters And the rememdy suggested at the war Department was, to have him reappointed I made the mossion after it has been approved by the

Page 4

Quarter Master General and like that of the Commissary only awaits the approval of the senate. The senators inform me that they will have the appointment taken up and acted on as soon as possible. The sound with the appointment of Capt. Thos, D Johnston retained with the Legion as Commiissary. I have been trying while not otherwise employed, to put under way the passage of a law by Congress that will authorize the president under such rules and restrictions as he may deem proper to permit our dedicaded Citizens who have been by false representation led off in oppositin

Page 5

to their homes and country to return made amends for the past and be forgiven ordinary political offences, If this can be affected the influence, it will in my opinion, exercise will be to cause many of the best part of our dedicded citizens to return to their homes and thus put an end to the civil war that has existed between our own citizens, which would soon put an end to the section of country adopting this place. The yankies would try to subjugate any portion of the country when the resident population opposed them

Page 6

and sooner or later those differences between our people have to be settled. The sooner this is done the sooner peace will be made. Whenever the yankies find that they can no longer make the southerners fight each other and have to prosecute the man of Conquest and subjugation exclusively by themselves it will require but a short time to convence them of the impossibily of of success. They will be ready then and now till then to acknowledge our Independence withdraw their troops and put an end to the war. As to reconstruction any one of the msot ordinary capacity

Page 7

examinming the insurmountable barriers that lie in the way of its accomplishment must redily see that it is lent another name for subjugation supposed that it were agreed to what would follow, 1st the army on our part would be disbanded their arms turned over to the Government. Their army as many us demmed nissary to cultural elections would be quartered among us, They would in this way not only control both houses of Congress but also the Legion of the states. Through this ruling would any one, pretend that the southern people could under this system retain either civil or religious liberty.

Page 8

The accounts of the election of President by the northern states are to some extent conflicting but it is altogether probable that Lincoln is elected, we shall hear in a few days with us it is a matter of but little consequence. Neither will open negotiations for peace or acceps of propositions of negotiations upon the subject while a hope remains of our subjugation. The Yankies ine too much to enslave our white people and confiscate all the property of the sinth , Rather than submit to this we had better make any sacrefices while the way may require I will leave for home as soon as possible. My love to mother and the children not hub- to bulawer of The family and friends. My health is good may providence bless and protect you Wm Thomas.

