Page 1

Major David Burford Nashville Tenn From B. F. Martin

Page 2

Dixon Springs Novem. 15th 1833 Maj. Burford Dear Sir Your letter of the 9th instant, came to hand a few days ago for the favor of which, please accept my Thanks. It is the first letter I ever rec,d from any of our public functionaries. I am glad that you voted against the "Indian Bill." I have allways been opposed to the doctrine of the several states having Jurisdiction of written, belonging as I think to the Federal government. Your vote, in this occasion, will I have no doubt, be approved by your constituents generally. The measures of chartering another new Bank, I think, inexpedient and uncalled for. The people of this state, have had enough of Banks and Banking, to be tired of it. I have rented out my plantation, and wish to fix to move here as soon as possible, as the season is now far advanced. I wish to leas the cabinet shop for the same term of time that I get the other houses. It is situated a good distance

Page 3

from the store; and it is a better house for a family to live in, than any of the others. And in addition to this, I had rather occupy it myself than to have another family there, which is in the range of possibilities. I would not however, interfere in the least, with any agreement, or understanding within express or implied, between yourself and Wilborn. If you are not under obligations to him, I will give you fifty dollars, annually for it. This is a pretty high price. I should also have to put up other buildings, adjacent to it. If you will therely much oblige me. And should I not get the cabinent shop I shall have to build near the spring. Can you let me have a sufficient number of beach logs to put up a round log house say 18 by 20 feet? If you can, state your price. I can get of Mr. Mitchell, but his are inconvenient. If you would sell a small part of your land including the cabinent shop I will give you a high price for it. I would want say five acres what would you wask for it pr acre? The mail is waiting and I must

Page 4

close. Hoping to see you among us again shortly and wishing you health and happiness. I am your friend B. F. Martin P.S. If you auede to the terms as to leasing the shop this way be considered my obligation I have hired men to build for me, but they cannot go on, until I hear from you. If you agree to the terms, let your letter close the contract BFM

