Page 1

A Soldiers letter 1 Travis Co B 4 th Infty Mr. W. T. Kennerly, Knoxville, Box 56./ Tennessee, U.S.A.

Page 2

To WTK from Sargent Travis. Uncle of WTK 1900 May Imus P.I May 2 nd 1900 Mr. W. T. Kennerly Dear Nephew I recieved a letter from you two or three days ago and at the same tim a bundle of Magazines I was glad to get both especially the letter. As to the magazines we get $100.00 worth from the U.S. having Subscribed for all the leading Magazines and Periodicals also four daily papers from different parts of the Country. I thank you very much for the magazines sent, but as we get them as soon as they can be sent after publication, it is needless to send any more. As to the Book "Sapho" you spoke about sending. I havnt received it yet but will probably get it soon and will certainly enjoy it as I have heard so much about it that I have a curiosity to see a Copy. I have heard from Lelie and Blanche Crawford lately Lelie writes that she is very much pleased with her school in Jackson. I sent a P.O. money order to Mr Kennerly for fifty dollars and also a registered package containing a watch to Lelie. Well Travis I am glad to know that you did not get a job with the peace commission as this is no place for a man to come especially at the beginning of the rainy season. I am dreading the coming of this rainy season as I came very near "croaking" during the last one. My health has been good for the past six months and I haven't lost a day from duty on account of Sickness. Everything in our vicinity is quiet with an occasional scrap with Gurillas. The 46 Infantry had three men killed a few days ago by a band of Ladrones who ambushed them while going to Silang on Decoration day. The escort that was with them ran off and left them.

Page 3

The 43 rd stationd at San Maguil had a lively experience the other night. Pilar with a gang charged the town in the night driving in their outposts and completely surprising the troops. It seems that it was every man for himself as the "Gugus" were on them before they were aware of their presence. They had six or seven men killed and as many wounded and it is highly probable that they were shot by their comrades in the excitement; one captain and two privates was captured and carried back in the mountains. Two of our Seouts was captured about five miles from this town about two weeks ago having fallen out while out with a reconotring party. We scouted the country in all directions but failed to find them Conditions here are about as usual no fighting except in small detachments encountering bands of a hundred or so Guerillas occasionally. There is no regular organised insurgents any more except Pilars and a few others who still hang on with a few hundred men. All the natives one insurgents and all ways will be and one only waiting for a favorable oppertunity to raise up against us. I had quite a hot time sometime since trying to capture Mascardo a guerilla leader here. I was told one evening by a native that he was stopping in a Nipa hut about 1 mile from here. I asked my "chum" to go with me after dark and we would take him in but as he had more sense than I did he refused saying that he didn't care to get his throat cut by being led into an ambush by a lying "Gugu". I was fool enough to go myself thinking to surprise him and take him unawares. I went out after dark taking only a Colts revolver and made my way to the house or near it when I was hatted and fired on from a distance of about forty yards I pulled my gun and fired three shots in sets shooting at the flash of their guns. It got too hot for me and I moved back and met three with Bolos trying to cut me off. I give it to them so hard that they gave way and I walked "rather fast" I admit back. I am acting 1st Sergeant and have been for a week past as our 1st Sgt got too much "Bens" and got Busted. I have been offered the place but dont want it Your Uncle Sgt Travis "over"

Page 4

Travis you will have to excuse this letter as there is no news of interest to write and as I am acting 1st Sgt I am pretty busy but will do better next time. give my love to all the family when you write home Sgt T

