Page 1

At Home July 21st 1849 Dear Sir A short time since, I received a letter from E. B. Smith Esqr; Cashier of the Panters Bank at Pulaski, asking you for a letter to the Secretary at Nan in relation to the appointment of nay agent at Memphis. We stated that he had written to you sometime ago but received no answr from you and suppasis you had not received his letter; and not knowing that you had left here, requested me to see you on the subject. I have known Mr. Smith for several years. He is a man of great integrity and much devoted to business. He is getting somewhat advanced in life and is anxious to viteon to memphis, where he has lived longest in the west and where his kindred mostly are. He has been unfortunate and is still dependent on his personal hertion for support. I have every confidence that he would make a faithful and efficient public agent; and if you think so too, give him such a letter as he desires and enclose it to him at Pulaski. The cholera has left Middle Tennessee pretty much. There is an accasional case at Nashville and the neighbourhood, but it no longer prevails as an epidemic. It is intenly healthy here - perhaps never more so. there are no symptoms of Cholera and

Page 2

fewer cases of fever than usual at this season of the year. Myself and wife returned evening before last from Beaver-Dam very much improved. I know of no care of sickness among your acquaintances except A, Loony's youngest chld. It is suffering from tuthing and may not get well. There is no political excitement here. the friends of Trousdale think it a good sign for them; but they are mistaken. Brown will get just about the same vote that Genl Taylor did - not five hundred less I am sure. The slavery question, as presented by the democratic party, connects itself with dangers much more terible than abolitionism. No man should ever be tolerated as a public leader who can seriously talk about the dissolution of our union as a remidy for existing evils - for eveils that exist on paper and the lively imagination of fanatics and heratic partisans. The questions involved may, at any time, be made a legal one and when decided should be conformed to by the people, unless practical appression shoul dbe the consequence; in that event, in the exercise of the inherent right of revolution, resistence might become a duty. But we have not yet reached that point and the bluster of some of the would-be leaders of the democratic party is rediculos, or outragus just as they are impatient an powerful. The people of Tennessee are not prepared either for anarchy or civil war. They will mantain the constitution and laws in

Page 3

this integrity; and while they laugh at those small witlings who raise a timpest in a tea pot, they will look with scorn and indignation when others who really know the danger that they are aiding to create and yet laborer to swell and increase them to advance their own personal interest. Our county candidates are leaving a pretty animated struggle. It is generally understood that Gratt and Strayhorne will be elected by a considerable majority. The brave suffered a little for rain in the last three weeks, though crops that are well worked are very good; wheat crop very light, oat crop very heavy. give my best respects to your wive & children - Our College and the community generally have suffered a heavy loss in the death of Mr. Shorucan- It will be difficult to supply his place; but we will imploy no man whose qualifications will not fairly inlittle him to public confidence. Very Truly, Your friend Edmund Dillahunter Genl. George W. Gordon

