Page 1

Oct. 27. P.S. Perhaps as Wilberforce is usually written first on your address, your letters may be laid away in the box over W. - enquire every way as we always write you & will do so. farewell. Savannah Ga. Oct. 26. 1850. My Dear Sons I know you will be surprised to receive a letter dated here. As agent of Tennessee I am now here on business of the E.T. & G. R.R. Co. & ahve been twice during the summer at the north attending to the same business. On each of those occasions I wrote to you & your good Ma - your sisters or myself have written to you twice a month ever since you left. We receive letters from you very seldom & are always grieved to hear that ours to you have not come to hand. This is sent to the care of Doctor Hunt formerly of Knoxville - to whom I have also written a long letter with the hope that if this miscarries you will still see his as I have requested him to send it to you too. I got a letter tonight from your Ma in which under date the 22nd Oct., she says all were well at home - that yours of August had reached Mecklenburg - & informing her of you & Marley, & 3 Kentuckians attempting to drain the Stanislaus river. Now I beleive Tennessee & Kentucky energy & enterprise can achieve any thing but impossibilities but still I hardly can bring myself

Page 2

to believe that you will succeed in an undertaking so Herculean. My greatest fear is that your labors & exposure will give you both a fever - but God my dear sons has already guarded protected & delivered you in past difficulties & dangers & I trust he has continued to extend to you his kind protecting & delivering Providence. I pray constantly for his care & mercy to you. But my dear sons I think you have been long enough in California. You have realised I expect much of what I foretold you & expected would occur. You ought long since to have left Genl. Anderson. We always wrote to you to do so & I have in every letter repeated to you that neither law conscience justice or honor - nor public nor private opinion at home or abroad would require you to stay with or be connected with him. I was glad to hear you had left him. I do not know how you are getting along I fear you are out of friends or at least that you have not the means of getting home. I have always written to you to use my letter of credit & get means upon it to return. I also wrote to Lieut. Williamson - Major Reynolds in Oregon & now to Doctor Hunt that if you needed & desired funds to return upon I would cheerfully refund it with good

Page 3

interest to any one that would let you have it. I would have sent it by Mail but the diabolical perfidy & infidelity of the Post Office agents have thrown out or withold your letters - the money if sent by Mail would have received the same fate. I have done all I could & am still willing & desirous to get you back & you have only to indicate the way & it shall be done. If you make not a cent it makes no odds Come home again - no on holds either of you responsible for Genl. A's signal failure let the blame rest ever upon him & those who contributed to his humbug. I am almost discouraged from writing any home news. I have written so many letters that have miscarried. Still I will try once more. To begin then where all your affections cluster & concentrate. Our Mecklenburg with the exception of your absence is still the same seat of health happiness & contentment. All were well when I left Oct. 19. & also the 22nd the date of your Ma's letter. Nothing new in the neighborhood. Robert & McKnitt are my managers. We are getting along very well - but both of you would be usefully & advantageously employed if you were at home again. Times are every day getting better in E.T.

Page 4

Crozier is succeeding at the bar. There is plenty of room for Wilberforce & Alexander can find plenty to do farming stock raising or at the mills - or various sorts of business. I am necessarily a good deal from home & will be for a year to come. I need both of you to help me occasionally. I think you had better, if you have made that much money return via Panama Chagus & if you have not made that & can do not better why just use your letter of credit borrow the money & come back. Alexander you may think you will do better next year Wilberforce may think so too. Dont be deceived by these visionary men that seduced you from Tennessee - nor believe their delusive misrepresentations & deceptive promises but exercise your own good sense & act accordingly. You know what my advice & opinion would be. I need not give it again. A welcome awaits you both from us all & every acquaintance you have. All enquire for & are much concerned about you. Write home often - give us the satisfaction of hearing from you even if our letters fail to give you the pleasure of hearing from us. God bless you my dear dear sons prays your affectionate Father J.G.M. Ramsey P.S. I leave here in a day or two for home. I am quite well. I would be happy if I knew you were both well.

