Page 1

Head-Quarters 6th East Tennessee Infantry. Near Knoxville, February 13 1864. Dr. Father, It has been many a day since I have heard directly from you and nearly as long since I wrote to you - You see by my heading that Regt Hd-Qrs are near here - We are on the Armstrong Ferry road just four miles from town and at the place of old man Ault - there our Regt is in Winter Quarters and comfortably fixed - We have been there since about the 25 Ult when we ceased our Retreat from Buffalo Creek in Grainger County - We were at Buffalo nearly a month - While there I saw several men who had been

Page 2

and some who still are friends of yours - Robert Loyd, J.T. West Thomas West and a good many others - Loyd and J.T. West are Rebs. ThS West is a Union man - We marched to Flat Creek Bridge from Buffalo and remained near til all our trains and baggage etc were sent to Knoxville and then followed it - At Hannileal Sovis we joined the main Army in its retrograde movement. We camped one night and next morning took up the line of march in column of Brigade's for K. tho 9 A. C. bringing up the rear until we marched the pike about 3 1/2 miles from town - Here the 9 A. c. unmasked the 23rd and it took position for battle but the enemy refused to give it - The only

Page 3

fighting after we cme to bay consisted in the skirmishes of our Brigade driving back the pursing cavalry about two miles - This was affected without any loss to us and very little if any to the enemy - The whole loss in the retreat after our Army crossed Holston was, I learn, one Lieut and one private killed and perhaps half a dozen wounded Linor that evening we have not been disturbed although Col. Cross had a captain and two men captured while on picket - and our Regt. has lost about ten men on different scouts. I think the boys have been much more quiet and obedient than the Authorities expected them to be - yet a few Rebs here have

Page 4

filled their nights - Sam Duncan of this country has been killed by a party unknown - Dick Pryor has been whipped - Jim Porter of the 14 District of Knox has been whipped. These are I think only instances I know of in which revenge has been taken personally for personal wrongs 0 Genl. Spears is now undergoing trial by Court Martial - Charges are using disloyal language - appropriating public property to private purpose and conduct prejudicial to Good order and Military discipline - The Charges were preferred at Dept Hd Qrs and are signed by Maj. Anderson and Aido to Genl. Foster I am only concerned in the matters as a witness - Of course you know my desire but I have taken no steps to bring on a trial - I think the charges will be substantiated - If they

Page 5

Head-Quarters 6th East Tennessee Infantry. Near Knoxville, 1864 should not be the feeling of the Genl. sums to told to make it anything but pleasant for all who are witnesses - He attempts to saddle it on each one and of course makes a mistake. I know how the whole originated and every opinion he has advanced as yet is incorrect - I shall lit it alone only as far as I am compelled to come into it as a witness - I am staying while a witness with mother as she is alone - I recieved for you, from Gov. Mayo, Twenty Dollars as rent for the Shephard house for one month a few days since and turned over the money to mother as your banker - I also rented the house to J. C.

Page 6

Lemones at $16.00 per month - I did this all the fence is gone and all the stables are torn down - He offered to give $250.00 per year if I would let him put a good fence about the lot and pay cost for the fence - I told him that at present I had no assurance that a fence could be kept there but should I find later that it could I might accept his proposition - Who he is I know not - He has been in the Reb. Army but has taken Abe's oath - I do not think he used to live here - He works for his housing I see and I know he has paid me one months rent in advance and proposes to pay in advance monthly - Have I acted rightly - Somet step must be taken to obtain compensation for the injury to our property and

Page 7

you know that as it must be done in your name, you are required to be present - I should not like to do it in my own name and on my own responsibility as you might not like my valuations But all can be arranged when you come - If you wish any think done please let me know and if it is in my power to do it I will do so - We are all well - Please write soon - What does the "Union" mean? All send love - It is very late and I will defer until another time all further nonsense Yours affecly Edward Maynard St. Col. 6 Tenn. Infantry P.S. If you could get my

Page 8

boxes of clothing here in any matter I think they would be of great service in our Hospitals Nineteen (19) hundred sick and wounded now in Hospital here - Small Pox is on the decline - Our Regt slowly increases and will shortly get a very large increase - Edward Maynard St.Col.cc.

