Page 1

D. Burfords Memo of the trial of Nath W. Williams Judge Sc of the Judicial circuit of the State of Tennessee in 1829

Page 2

Tuesday, 3rd Nov 1829 The Senate formed themselves into a court of impeachment W Cannon in the chair. When Judge Williams & counsil Wm Brown submitted in writing the following motion, to wit to quash or amend, or direct to be amended the 1st & 2nd specification of the 2nd artickle: also to quash or amend the 4-5 & 6 artickles, and often hearing arguments from the Deft,s counsel for and in support of the above motion, also argument of the managers on the part of the House of Rep,s against said motion - the court adjourned until next day 10 O Clock, and in the mean while considered of the motion. Wednesday 18th Nov. 1829 Senate formed themselves into a court M Cannon in the chair, when the Def,t by his counsil Gibbs, Balch, & Rucks appeared within the barr of the Senate; also the managers on the part of the House of Rep,s appeared within the barr of the Senate; when Wm gibbs one of the Deft,s counsil informed the court that the Defendant was ready to file his replication & plea - the court informed the Deft,s counsil that so soon as the minutes was read the court would be ready to receive

Page 3

the Deft,s answer and plea, and so soon as the minutes ware read Mr Balch one of the deft,s, counsil proceeded to read the defts, answer and plea, and so soon as the answer was read Mr Gibbs asked if the Senate would have the answer printed, and further observed that if the court should not direct the printing if there was any objections to the def,ts having it printed himself and stated that inasmuch as the charges had been published it was but just that the answr also should be printed; an intimation was given by the court that it would be printed - Mr Gibbs also gave notice to the court that he should on monday next renew a former motion hertofore made, for copys of the evidence taken by the committee of the House of Rep,s in the deft,s case; - after which the court adjourned until monday next 10 O,Clock A.M. Monday 23rd November, 1829 court met pursuant to adjournment; the acused, his counsil, and the managers on the part of the State being present: the minutes of the last preceeding session having been first read, Mr Martin one of the Managers on the part of, the House of, Representatives, informed the court that the managers had had prepared a replication which he then proceeded to read. Mr gibbs one of the Defendants counsil then read the affidavit of the Def,t in support of the Deft,s application

Page 4

for a copy of the evidence taken before the select committe of the House of Representatives to assertain and inquire into the charges exhibeted against the Def,t - Mr Peyton one of the Deft,s counsil then spoke in support of the motion and in support of the motion the Deft,s counsil cited the following authoretys 1st strange page 129, Barns noted 2 Vol, page 194 Tiggs practive page 532, 1 Vol chillys criminal saw page 295, 8 Term Reports page 293, Ed Qn Review No 79, 4 Barns & Robersons Reports page 225 - 1 chitty crim saw page 275 & comon saw Reports page 110. Mr Foster then followed Mr Peyton in opposition to the motion, next Mr Martin & Mr Brady in opposition; The managers contended that the court had no power to enforce the motion and that def,t had a right to know the states witnesses, and that the Def,t has already a copy of their names by which he can attack their credabilety, they also contended that such a mtion was unprecedented. Mr Gibbs concluded and made a lengthy speach in support of the motion and relied upon the above cited authorety. The court then decided against the motion Mr. Tipton only voting in the affirmation - The court then adjourned until that day week 10 o,Clock A.M. Monday, 30th 1829 court met pursuant to adjournement and after the minutes of the last preceeding minutes was read. Mr Brady, on of the managers on the part of the state, gave notice, that the mamagers was ready on the part of, of the state to proceed to the trial of Judge

Page 5

Nathaniel W. Williams: Mr Gibbs one of the Deft,s counsil asked for the trial of the Def,t to be posponed to thursday next, and assigned as a reason that one of the Deft,s counsil was unable to attend from indisposition and that two other of his his counsil was employed as counsil in a verry important states case now pending in Davidson County Circuit court. The postponment was opposed by Mr Turney one of the managers on the part of the state for the reason of the ilconvenience that would result to the witnesses, and nessesarily of the expence to the state. And the court granted the motion to pospone the trial until next thursday 10 o,Clock, and adjourned until Wednesday 9 O,Clock A.M. Wednesday Nov 2nd 1829 court met pursuant to adjournment, and proceeded to adopt rules for the Government of the court as to the order and number of the counsil which are to speak in the case, also the maner of the examination of Witnesses. Then the court adjourned until Tomorrow 10 O,Clock A.M.

Page 6

Thursday morning 10 o,Clock A.M. court met pursuant to the adjournment present the managers on the part of the House of Rep,s and the defendant & counsil. Mr Gibbs, one of the Defendants counsil, submitted in writing a motion to discharge Jonathan Spiken, clerk of Franklin county circuit court, whi had bee sumonsed before the court on a Supena Jusum Stickum, to bring with him his minute Books of the clerks office, and after argument the witness was excused by the managers, for the present, from bringing his books, but retained as a witness. Mr Peter S. Deckard, a witness for the state, was then called and qualefyed, Witness states that he is and has been for some years Deputy clerk for Franklin circuit court. That at July Term 1828 Thomas P. Tal and Judge Williams went to Mr James Campbells house in Winchester during the sitting of the circuit court as he was informed. That on their return they both came to the clerks table and that Judge Williams directed the clerk to take Tals ackowledgment to two deeds, which he Tall held in his hand; witness states that there was certificates of the privy examination of Mrs Caroline P. Tal made on the back of the deeds signed by Judge Williams, that as well as he witness recollects, Tal stood by witness and held the deeds in his hand until the clerk had copyed in his books the certificates which had been previously made on the back of the deeds, - That after witness had copyed the certificates in his book, that

Page 7

that P. Tal took the deeds away with him - Witness does not think that he had the deeds in his hand, but that Tal held them up before him until they ware copyed - this was on the evening of the 23 July 1828 and witness thinks about two or three o clock in the afternoon - these was the last entrys made on that day - court adjourned directly after the entrys was made until 5 o,clock next morning. Next morning court met about sun rise or perhaps a little after, witness commenced reading the minutes and proceeded until he came to the entry of the deeds from Tal & wife to Porter & to Deckard, whine Tho,s P. Tal who had been standing reather behind him and to his left, who requested witness to not read the minutes as it was family matter, witness stated that it was his duty read the minutes and that he should do so - Tall then moved the court not to have the minutes read, that it was a family matter, and that the court new the contints - the court then bowed, and, directed the clerk not to read the minutes, when he by intimation from the court dsisted from reading them - Witness states that Mrs Caroline P. Tal was not in court to acknowledge the deeds nor for any other purpose to his knowledge That Tho,s P. Tal, and the Judge was quite initmate and had been ever sicne the Tals came to the country witness states that this is the only case which he ever knew of the minutes not having been read, and that he had done the business in the clerks office since 1821 or 1822.

Page 8

Witness states that the rules adopted at the special Dec Term 1828 of Franklin circuit court was that all causes in which the parties was not ready was to be continued to the regular Term in January - the causes was generally continued by consent, but great latitude was given by the court - Witness states that he was well acquainted with Mrs Caroline P. Tal and that she was a very superior woman - she was in verry delicate health - W. had a conversation with Mrs Tal at the request of her husband Tho. P. Tal, she seem,d not to wish company or to converse but her husband insisted that as there had been a great deal of talk about the deed that he wished her to talk to witness on the subject. Witness asked Mrs C. P. Tal if she had signed the deed fuly and if she knew its contents - at another conversation had with Mrs Tal she sated that after her husbands death she wanted her sister & her children to have what was left and that it should not go into the Tal family - Witness states taht he does not know Mr Neighbours who had a suit in Franklin circuit court with mr Heriford had left the country before the circuit court at Dec Term 1828 - the first that witness knew of the absence of Neighbours was the return of the exicution. Witness states that on the morning of reading the minutes on the day of adjournment that he did not see Mr James Campbell in the house, that dont recollect seeing any purson there except the Judge, Tho. P. Tal, Sheriff, Mr Rains & Mr Goodwin

Page 9

Roller P. Rains, a witness for the state, states that at July Term 1828 witness was waked early on the morning of July 24th 1828 and that he repaired to the court-house and on arriving there the clerk Mr Deckard was reading the minutes. Tho,s P. Tal stopped the clerk when a came to the entrys about the deeds from Tal & wife to Porter & Deckard, that the clerk states it was his duty to read the minutes & that he should do so, and again commenced reading, when he was again stop,d by Tal, and Tal then requested the Judge not to have them read, and that the Judge directed the clerk not to read the minutes - Witness states that Tal steped towards the Judge when he applyed to him to suppress the reading of the records witness states that in the case of Neighbours vs Herriford that a non suit was entered by order of court, and not by consent of the partys. That it is generally thought in Franklin county that Judge Williams was partial to the Tals, and that those who employed the Tals had a better chance than those who employed other attourneys, and that the Tals had the ear of the court. Benjamin Deckard, witness for the state, states that Tho. P. Tal came to him and requested that he watned him Deckard to go and talk to his wife on the subject of the deed exicuted by his (Tals) wife to Deckard for a certain lot in the Town of Nashville, and that Tall wanted Deckard to consent to have a deed made to him by himself & wife and for him to make a deed to Tall

Page 10

himself for the same lot back to him Tal; - That witness asked what he wanted the deeds made to him for & again back to Tal alone, That stated that his wife wished to do so as he cold then convey the lot himself if he should wish to do so - witness then consented and a deed was made to him, and the next day Tal came to him and go the old deed and gave him another, the old deed was torn up - Mrs Tal afterwards stated to witness that she knew the contents of the deed, that she watned her husband to have the benefit of the lot while he lived and after his death what was left to go to Mrs Campbell and children

Page 11

Thursday 3rd Dec, 1829, court met pursuant to adjournment, Mr gibbs submitted in writing, a motion to discharge Jonathan Spicken clerk of Franklin County circuit court who was sumoused before the court together with his books and papers - by a supena jus steckum - Mr Peter S Deckard a witness for the State & Deputy circuit clerk July term 1828 Mr Tall and Judge Williams went to Mr Campbells to take Mrs Talls examination and returned and Mr Tall had in his hand two deeds, he Tall ack,d it before the court then adjourned, next morning Tall objected to cou not to have the record read as it was a private family matter, & and court observed that it was necessary for them to be read as he knew their contents On the evening of Wednesday evening or Thursday morning - Judge Williams and Tall was quite intimate - Mrs Tall was not court to his knowledge deed in open court - it was not customary to pass over entrys without reading of them & that was the only case that he ever knew of and he had been olh since 1821 or 1822. At Dec Term 1828 of the Special term of Franklin circuit court all causes not ready continued to January Term generally by but in general agovdeal of latitude given He was well acquainted with Mrs Catharine P Taul, she was a ve superior woman - She was in delicate health - had a conversation with Mrs Tall at the request of Mr. Tall she seem not to wish comp but her husband insted for her to talk about the deed - witness ask Mrs Tall if she signed the deed verry freely - she afterwards stated in a sub nt conversation in which he thinks she Mrs Tall stated she

Page 12

sisters children to have her property - Had Mr Neighbours left the country? before the court answer he did not know about wheather he had left the country until after the issuance of the Exicution Tall when he address,s the court spoke in an ordinary tone stating that it was not necessary to read the minutes - when the court bow,d and said he supposed not as he knew their contents - Tall and Wife was at the time living at Mr Campbells Friday 4 Dec 1829, The last will and testament of Tho,s P. Taul was read dated 24 Aug,t 1829, Qn Deft what was the subject in dispute Neighbours vs herriford answer Qn Do you know anything of a letter written by Judge Isaacks to on the subject of the political charge agaisnt Def,t court refused to Denuit the witness to answer the question Qn how long have you been acquainted with Judge Williams and have you not considered him an honest correct man Ans - I have always thought him honest & correct - Qn John Goodwin - Qn was you present at Oct Term of Franklin circuit court 182 - please state what you know about the deed from T & wife and all you know about it - Mr Deckard the alk was stoped by Mr Tall from reading the minutes which he was 24 com the 2nd time & again stop,d Tall then aplyed to the Jude requesting they should not be read & the Judge assented as he understood - the reading of the minutes was about sun up on a little after - before breakfast - He thinks court adj,d before breakfast - he readlests distinctly of only seeing the Judge, cler, & T, P, Taul - was Mr Campbell in ans I see Mr T & C some little time after - do you know of any motion on the 23 to take the privy examination - an I do not - Qn was Judge Williams & T P. Tall intermate an,s moore so than with any other of bar - Witness in case of Brewer vs Williams - turney & witness & Rains for plff - plff atty insisted for trial Tall deft witness objected to trial & wanted the trial put off - Judge care observed if the attys did not agree to pospone he would adjourn court use of as he thought harsh & info Turney then made in the case N s Her & Mr T. represented Mr Green, who was original counsil for plflys Mr. T. for deft, a non suit was entered no affidavit being made which Mr Turney said his was not there & could not make the affidavit -

Page 13

Witness got license in Augt 1826 Qn by Deft do you feel certain that the minutes was not red on the evening Mrs C. P. Tall was a woman of great firmness and of fine mind as much so as any woman he ever saw - the minutes was read before the bill of exceptions was disposed P (Qn Roller P. Rains, witness for the state at July Term 1828 He was waked early in the morning - the clk was reading minutes, Tall stoped clk - Judge W ordered th he understook it it need not be read - Neighbours vs Herriford a non suit was entered by order of court and not by consent of the parties - Benjamin Deckard - sivor a for the state - Tho. P. Taul come to witness at July Term of F. C. C. and requested that him T & wife would suffer a dee made to witness from witness bank to Tall himself - Witness asked T. why a deed to him & he back to T. Tall answ,d that it was to enable him T. if he sho sell that he done could make the deed - Mr Campbell, in the fall 1827 had conversation with W. V. A. Po & Tho. T. Tall about W. Porters buying of Tall 43 feet of Lot adjoin Doc McNary - in June afterwards C. P. Tall came to witness and was sick - Witness wrote a letter to Porter purhaps A. Port in which he requested that Mr Porter would come on and get a t Mr Wm Porter shortly after wrote on and sent a deed to be signed, Sayer T and wanted it ack,d in court by Mrs Tall - Witness into court Tuesday of 2nd week - Judge W. called witness to him and told him that if he had any mo to make to do so as he would do no moore business after the next day as he had been insulted & was advised not to push those who had insulted as he could not do so with impunity - He gave a certificate or form of while laying on the bench - Witness wife informed him that Judge Williams and Cal Tall was in his House - Cal Tall observ,d that he was apprehensive a would be raised - Witness told them there was no danger - the both went off Wit went down Tavern X enquir,d & found there was no tought of a mob. Witness never knew any thing about the deed mentioned in the artickles & never kn anything of the deed until told by B. Deckard after court - he never had any conversation to Judge Williams about any deed - he talked to Tall about Porters deed - Witness agreed that Dorf dixon & should draw up & was drawn up & presented - the paper in substance that Mrs Tall knew the purport of the deed when she signed it. At the first concerstaion had by witness with T. P. Tall witness had not hear that the re of the record was suppossed - and afterwards in the subseqent conversations with T witness mentioned the suppression of the record which was admitted by Tall - May vs Ross tryed in 1824 or 1825 The Judge charged substantially the same 1 starks 39 - 2 starks Reports 116 - 2 Days Reps 205 2 starks evidence 378

Page 14

Dec, 1824 court meet pursuant to adjournment Witness Campbell, has a particular distinct recollection of the pints in the case tryed at July term 1824 Qn, when was the question setled as to the statute, and did Judge Peck change his opinion? ans, the question was not altogether setled - he felt confident the the point was conceded, as he was informed, by Hays, Witness dont know of any case that Williams has disregarded the opinions of the supreme court. Qn do you not know that it was the wish of Mrs Tall that the lot is N. should be sold - Ans, she did not wish that the whole lot should be sold, and only a part of it to set them up for House Keeping - witness remarked to shiff why he did not adjourn court - shiff answ,d that the Judge had not told him to do so - It was the wish of Mrs Tall that her husband was to have controol over her property so far as was necessary for his Talls support & at his death what was left to go to her sister & children - old Mr Tall remarked that his daughter would be the heir in the event of T. P. Talls death and that she would not cliam it. Witness believes that after the controversy betwen Turney & Judge Williams about the suit of Neighbours vs Patton that they Turney &Isaaks had no wish to have Williams try their causes and Turney seemed obstinate - publick opinion against Judge Williams in Franklin Co existed before Turney ever made any attempt speach, Nathan Green, Witness for the state, Witness thinks the court decided in the of Rob Lepe vs May that the statute of limitation would be a bar first trial verdict against plff if statue limitation it would have gone diferantly thinks decision of the court at Columbia in the sumer of 1824, Henderson vs S. Williams was read - Nathan Haggard, witness for the state, States that circuit court was not held at Monrac Overton county in March 1824 - Witness, Rains, M. cormack atty form Sparta was at court; James Payne was in Jail - Witness was charged but on bail; also Jones witness thinks was in Jail - there was between 30 & 40 sivel suits on docket if witness recollects correctly - John Handley, States witness. Wit was present at July term 1828 when the minutes was read on Thursday morning clerk began to read the minutes, Mr Tall stoped the clerk and stated to the Judge that it was not nessesary - Judge Williams did stop the clerk & stated that he knew the balance and it was not nessesary for him to read any further - Mr Tall, clerk, Judge, witness, & perhaps Mr Goodwin there was but verry few present, the court having met unusually early on that morning - Wit thinks court met after early breakfast but is not positive. Wm P. Anderson - Had a conversation with his daughter Mrs Tall who wanted him witness to settle the matter between them about selling the lot, with tears in her eys she entreated her father to decide - Tall also insisted - witness decided that it was rong & stated that it uld be remedied, Tall said it could not. Tall got Mr Deckard to come, Tall then

Page 15

5 importuned his wife - witness then stated he thought the matter setled, when T. P. Tall said he did not agree for him to settle the matter & called the witness a liar - Mrs Tall raisd her week voice & stated that Mr Tall should not call her father a liar or speak to him in that maner - witness thinks that the general opinion is that the Talls had great & undue influance over J. W. and that it had been from the time they Tall come to the country - say some two or three years ago. Mrs Campbell - states that J. W. & Mr T came to her House, that T. directed her to leave the room, that she did so and foun J. W. in the parlor standing on the carpet, that nothing was said about their business but W. expected they had come on the business of the deed to Porter. N. H. Atkinson - statse that the circuit court was to have been holden at March Term 1824 but that there was no court, on account of the non attendance of the Judge, 16 crim causes, 35 sivil causes - 15 on the referance Dockett & witness thinks Mr Haggard attended court from Sparta & purhaps others J.W.,s general charrat as a judge is that he is thought honest, but whimsical & not verry capable - inattentive on account of failing to hold court - had been considerable rain & the waters was high - spring creek & roaring river - when verry full are dangerous - since March Term 1824 & March Term 1826 failed - Sept, Term 1827 failed - March Term 1827 failed to attend - Wednesday Dec 9 - 1829 Nathan Haggard - Judge Williams & S. Williams have been unfriendly for several years as he has understood from both parties Qn By managers what is J. W. general character as a Judge &and ans, I cant say that I know what it is, Qn, what is your own opinion of him as a Judge - objected to buy Deft counsil, and withdrawn - went from Sparta the cherry creek road by the standing stone cherry creek was the deepest, none very deep. Qn by def,t counsel, did you receive a letter from Judge Isaacks & what was its contents objected to by managers - Tho. Estill - Qn are you acquainted with Judge Williams as a Judge - his general character - how long have you been acquainted with J.W. Ans I have been living at Winchester 13 years - the general opinion there is that the Talls have undue influance over the Judge he has heard people say that they would prefer employing the Talls on account of their influance over him on the bench - in his own cases the witness things the J. was partial - bill of exceptoons interlined in Col Talls handwriting - Judge refus,d to let the witness come in and explain - stating that he the J. understood it to be as stated - Wm Estill - allways been a goodeal of complaint against as a Judge, his being negligant & since July 1828 it has been said that he was partial, it was thought that the J was partial to the Mr Tall & Mr Martin - David Arnes - Witness states that in going from Sparta to Monroe in Mart 1824 he had no difficulty, on account of high water, in gitting along -

Page 16

6 they went by the way of on account of high water - thinks Mr Haggard understood the publick roads better than comon, having traveled a good deal in that part of the country - Col Anderson again called, says J. W. he has always thought J. W. a Judge of honesty and intgrety - the evidince was then closed on the part of the state - Mr M Carmack, witness for def,t : At March Term 1824, witness J. W. Turney, & Rowen went from Sparta to Mrs Quales on Saturday - it was said by some purson that Judge Williams could not git to Monroe until Tuesday - witness went to Monroe an Sunday & gave notice that the Judge would not be there before Thursday - waters was very high - obys was said to be within 6 inches of as high as it had ever been - Witness has heard J. W. spoke of by some as an honest & some as a dishonest man - Alen M, Call, W. for Def,t Qn by def,t counsil did J. W. take the examination of Mrs McCall to a deed excuted by your self & wife, at Hallum tavern in Carthage during the session of April c.c. for Smith county - Ans objected to court decided that he asnwr, and accordingly decided in the affirma Geo. C. Hays - Deft witness - prov,d sumstantially the same as to examination of at the c.c. healt at Monroe Nov 21 -1828 the exicution of witness wife was examined at owen room room - 100 yd from the court House - Henry Herryford - Deft,s witness - had a suit with Neighbours, who was gone plff witness was attending at 3rd Term got a non suit - plffs agent charles Neighbours was there in the court House he was not called - In,o Gray Jones, proved the privy examination of a fame covet taken as above McCarmack, was in Debralls office, when Mr Haggard mentioned that Mr Turney had promised him L & that if J. W. was impeached, & broke that he Turney would support him H. for Judge - Haggard spoke of Turneys prospects being good for to be elected- John B. Rogers, left Sparta on Saturday after the c e at Sparta in for Monroe, by way of white plains falling water 16 m,s from Sparta was quiet full - dont recollect wheather it rained on Saturday evening or not - waters was high - thinks McCormack left white plains upon an experimant not knowing wheather he could get to Monroe or not on account of high water. Witness has been acquainted with J. W. since 1817 thinks him an honest & correct man & impartial Judge - but has heard him spoken of as being partial - James T. Quales - thinks waters was high in March 1824 advised Mr Hays to have the privy examination of his wife taken at her own House - belives J. W. to be an honest, impartial & independent Judge - Armstrong - was at March court 1824 got to Monroe on Tuesday - J. W. had stated to him that the records was read as far as he could recollect but understood from the Mr Deckards that they was not read & supposed it was so has known him for 30 years and thought him an honest man & Judge -

Page 17

7 Jw W Simpson, has known deft 20 years & so far as he knows has found him to be a strictly honest man and Judge - so far as he has heard it is so considered. John Jelt has had partial acquaintance with def,t since 1808 - always conceived him to an honest man - Wm Lock - witness recollects the state of the waters in March 1824 - 2nd Monday the waters was generally verry full - it would have been difficult for a stranger to have gone from Carthage to Monroe - those who are acquainted could have got along & have avoided the high waters - has known deft since 1809, had never any thing of def,t but an honest correct man - from Mrs Quales to Monroe by way of the standing stone it is passable almost at all times - Elisha D. Roberson has lived in Franklin county since 1822 and thinks def,t an honestly & integrity - and things def,t would do Justice - there is a great deal said from the people in general - def,t has spoken of verry much for 3 or 4 months - Mr Turney & others he thingsk tryed to affect the publick mind against def,t at Salem Mr J. stated that de,t was a base corrupt man, scoundral & lyor and he could prove it - was a Juror state vs Lewis - see nor heard nothing from the Judge like partiality or impropriety - thinks the Judge attentive as nessesary - John Hall - witness has practised in one of deft,s courts for some years, has known his for many years - and has himself never doubted the integrity of def,t Rob,t L. Caruthers Witness has known def,t ever since he was grown, has practised before him since 1824 - there are complaints against def,t for his slat & sometimes on other grounds - but for the last year or two has been moore attentive when well - from your knowledge of J. W. have you not thought him partial he has heard complaints, has violant enemys at Carthage - thinks the J. capracious sometimes too slow & sometimes wont adjourn - has heard the people complain - At last spring Term the bar united in opinion that the J should not set & request him to adjourn- Jo. C. Guild - has practiced in Smith Co. for several years - thinks J an honest man has had his partialitys - but has decided from the merits of the cause - Judge Steward - has been acquainted with Def,t since he came to the country - and considers him an honest man as he ever knew - thinks it would be purhaps the most correct course for atty to furnish Judge with the opinion - but that the opposite lawyer should know what is is the paper - The general practice with him has been to examine the fame covert in court, or to grant a commision for taking their examination.

Page 18

8 Mr Strand - witness has known def,t for several years and from his acquaintance with his as Judge thinks him an honest and correct Judge - that the people generally, in his section of the country, that he is an honest man. P. W. Humphreys, witness has known def,t from the year 1805, and from his long acquaintance with def,t think him an honest, correct, man Wit has frequently had the oth to bring the books to his room about the time of adjournment, where he has had the books & examined decrees, and afterwards not had them read over in court but passed over having previously examined & compared them at his room - and signed the minutes at his room & directed the sheff to make proclamation & adjourn court at the court house. Edward Scott Witness has known def,t for many years and thinks him an honest and correct man - does not know much of def,t as a Judge witness has not been in the habbit of taking privy examination of feme covets out of court. John McMairy - has known deft, for a number of years - and has always considered him an honest correct man - never heard anything against him until the last Pes,t Election & the present charges. Mr Lacy - gave evidence as to the custom in K,y as to deliverying to the Judges, by counsil an opinion in writing - such as they with charg,d Wm Carroll - has known def,t for several years - knows nothing of his own knowledge but his being & honest man - has heard his best acquaintance speak of him as such - Tho. Washington - witness has known def,t for many years and thinks def,t a sterling honest man. Anthony Dibnall - O. B. Hays - witness has known Def,t for several yeasr and has know reason to think him anything but an honest man, at Smith c. c. in the case of witness thinks S. Williams did not wish J. W. to set & try the cause - dent recollect wheather J. W. declined to try the case or not, but supposed the accord will speak on that subject. Statute of limitations was made a question - witness knows that attys did not agree about the questions being setted -

Page 19

9 Robert White - Witness thinks a majority of the supreme court was in favour of the Statute of limitations running against an entry, J. Haywood dissenting - witness never was verry much acquainted with def, but from his acquaintance & from what he had heard has considered him an honest man. John Catnon - Witness thinks at Jan,y court 1825 it was reported through the country that the question of Statute would run against an entry - the question was not sitled until 9th Septr 1828 and then decided that the statute would bar an entry - the act of 1809 required that the minutes should be read in opa court, but on the last day had frequently been examined & signed at the private room - in one case while the court was going on the witness to take the book to his room and examie & correct them, the Books was afterwards into court, but wheather read there or not does not pretend to say - has known def,t and always throught him and honest man - has never failed to read the minutes - never knew where the minutes was attempt to be read & the clerk stop,d to his recollection. James Rucks - Witness, cannot speak as to time but recollects that J. W. was verry low with the Rheumatism - unable to leave the court J. W. set upon the bench when he was unable to set as he thinks the bar joined in a written request to J. W. not to sit - that he was unable - in 1825 witness the cause of as Williams & Cox - the question of relationship was rais and argued, & finally desided that no rolation ship did exist Aroh,d Lytle - has been acquainted with def,t for many years & thin an an honest correct man - he went to school with def,t assisted his sister Ishum Purkins - Witness has known def,t for 20 years and think him an honest man & one of integraty - James T. Holeman - Witness has been acquainted with def,t fo six or seven years - and thinks he is as partial & independant a man as he ever knew - and care as little for popular opinion as any man witn ever knew in his life - Edwin Rollings - witness went to Winchester in July 1828, went Mr Talls who stated that the deed to Porter should be attended to next day wit see Mr Tall who seemed indifferant - Wit then went to Mr Campbell who sa it would be attended to - and left the deed with Mr Campbell Plesant Henderson - had a conversation with Mr Campbel on the day before the election - witness stated to Mr Campbell that he had

Page 20

a statement in which he C. said he was satisfyed Mrs Tall knew the contents of the deed - Mr C stated that Mr Tall has shown the statement to a hundred pursons he supposed - witness thinks him Deft un honest & impartial man, Mr C. said his friend had for 12 mos pursuaded him to file a bill - Docr Dixon - was the physicion Mrs C. T. Tall thoughthad the confidence of Mrs Tall, that she states she well knew the nature of the deed which she had made to Deckard and that an account of her & his Talls ill health they should travil & could not do so without money - she further stated that what was left after his T,s death she wanted it to go to Mrs Campbell & children - witness thinks def,t an independant & impartial Judge - Witness wife is relation of def,t has confidence in Mr Campbell Mr Grays Deposition - witness was not in court when minutes was read 24 July 1828 - turney & the Judge became displeased - Herriford vs Neighbours, L & was called and wanted his trial stating Neighbours has left the country - thinks the Judge became unpopular for in attention & c and not from stump speaches Turney & Estall spoke of the Judges partialety & c Michai Warren, witness went to see Mrs Tall - she seem,d opposed to see company - Mr T. insisted for her his wife to talk - she then said it was their own business and others should not interfear - that she wanted the conveyance on account of Mr Talls ill health - and when they ware both gone she wanted Mrs C. & her childrent to have the property - Judge Green - witness heard Mr Robbins say on the day of the last Aug,t election that if the people wished it if he was elected that he would impeach Judge Williams for that he J. W. was not fit for a Jduge know how. Mr Dibrall - witness thinks deft an honest & impartial Judge Monday 14 Decr 1829 John H. Ray - witness stated that Judge Williams Daughter was sick on the 1-10 & 16 of March 182 J.W. returned home while witness was at def,t House - waters was high, witness went round the principal water courses, the branches which witness crossed was high - J. W. expressed some regreat about not goign to court. Witness saw def,t frequently while sick with the rheumatism - he was verry bad-

Page 21

col Tall - witness states, that in the case of Neighbours vs Herriford Herriford was called into court and insisted for a trial, not much opposition - in the case of Brewer vs Williams witness thinks no cause had been tried before the case of Neighbours vs Herriford - witness things Mr Turney was willing to ahve the cause disposed of - Witness recollects that on friday the first week of the supreme court at sparta that Judge Catron stopped the clerk from reading the munites & stated that he could not set on the case before the court and that he would take the books and examine them witness had been in the habit of readucing his motions to writing and generally read them from the ban - one the court paid no attention it - there was no difficulty about the bill of exception - Judge Isaa drew up and presented to witness the bill of exceptions, they did no agree exactly as to what Mr Russell one of the witnesses had stated. J. Issacks drew up an addition to the bill of exception on a seperate pice of paper, and afterward was presented to the court. Witness heard a man threaten the author of a certain publication in a Knoxville paper, if the author would but avour himself -

