Page 1

July 3. 1850. My dear Sons, The time seems long, long indeed since we have received a letter from you - W's to Cro. written in Feb - was the last, now the 2nd of July. Gen. A. & Mr D. have written, their letters came to hand last week and we have heard the company were all well which has relieved us very much. I would rather have heard directly from yourselves and still look every mail anxiously for a letter. There are so many rumours here about you all that we do not know what to think and have been in constant suspense and anxiety - we have heard of the seperating of the company and letters have been received from both parties accusing each other of dishonesty and many other dishonourable acts of course have caused unpleasant feelings & those here will vindicate their own friends - you two have said but little about yourselves or others. I wish you had said more and been more explicit - some say you have all been nearly destitute of food and clothing others that you have plenty of both some say they have the greatest confidence in their leaders, others they have none in their ability or integrity. I fear my poor boys you have got to a dilemma from which it will be difficult for you to extricate yourselves. The stockholders here have been saying all the time that the men would never stay and pay up the debts of the Co. after having been delayed on the road one year and have long since given up all hopes of receiving anything from them. It was expected by all, except the Andersons and Deadericks, that the company would have disbanded at Santa Fe and it has caused much surprise here that you have adhered to the conductor's so long. I was told by a person who was in the confidence of the two families above mentioned, that your mess but no others would leave at Santa Fe I could not learn why. There are some persons who delight in mystery but I have all life detested anything of the kind. Frankness has always been my admiration and I can not get along with any one who does not act frankly. You must know then how painful it has been to me to be kept in the dark so much. I have never had the offer of one letter to read all I have seen was garbled extracts published complimenting one family and connections. You know I am not suspicious and never imagine injustice without cause. I have reason to believe that you will not get justice from the persons you are with and

Page 2

you must take care of yourselves. Mr. D wrote disparageingly of you soon after leaving home, the connection here chimed in with some severe comments. I of course resented it with indignation - I am not afraid of you doing anything dishonourable but I fear you are too young too unsuspecting to hold your hand with old intriguers and you will be delayed working for those who will discard you when their ends are obtained or that you will be drawn into some difficulty with them. I refrained from writing anything of this sort for a long time for fear of producing unpleasant feelings. I would rather you would be too confiding as to distrust every person, for such a temper is a mark of a bad heart and renders the possessor of it very unhappy. I say what I have done lest you should trust too far and be involved in difficulties from which you cannot free yoruselves. I have always considered it very unfortunate that you went with that company on such a perilous journey but our merciful Father in Heaven has preserved your health and lives so far and I trust he will continue this kind care over you and that you will be returned to us in health we do not care if you have not a farthing in your pockets. I see by an extract in the register from Gen. A. letter that there are only 17 of you left with him it would be unreasonable and unjust to expect you to do the work of the 50 which left here. I hope you will therefore leave them and come home. The emigrants are going this year by thousands the number is greater than the last 30,000 it is said have passed St Joseph and Independence besides the vast numbers which have gone by water there is obliged to be unheard of suffering and hardships in Californ this next winter, that is one reason I am so anxious you should return to your comfortable home this fall. we could scarcely keep from shivering in the cold winter when the winds were whistling around us to think you were exposed to it all and we never would enjoy our hot coffee and buckwheat cakes for we know you had dry bread and bad coffee and a scarcity even of that. I tell you if you return before winter our comfort will be greatly enhanced. If you had received all my letters you would be tolerably well up with the news here but I expect you have not got the half. There was a big interval about the time you arrived at S. Fe that we had no intelligence from you. the friends of the Co. in town said there was no doubt but you had all gone on that you would stay but a few days at that place, we then commenced writing to San Francisco early last fall - when the arrivals came at length from Santa Fe, we were directed to send all letters to San Diego we have forwarded a number to that place, and some we have sent by private conveyance. Your Papa has been to Nashville returned home about a week ago, expects to start

Page 3

north this month some time - we would be so glad if you were at home Crozier is seldom here and you would both of you be so much company for us, and Alexander we can do without you no longer and Wilberforce we miss you quite as much - heard from Elizabeth the other day James Breck went to Richmond with Dr. F.A.R.s family and has returned they will spend the summer there Betty will return with them to visit Knoxville before going to N with her Father. Your uncle Arthur is here now, left his family in the country near Nashville they do not like living in the city. Crozier received a letter from Major Reynolds a few days ago is still in Oregon was enquiring for you, write to him and let him know where you are if you need a friend he is one that you may rely upon, he expected to be in California in may - the children talk as much about you as ever and all the neighbours enquire for you very particularly write to us all about yourselves let us know something about the Bailey's, neither of you have ever written anything concerning their leaving the company and we are quite in the dark about them. As others of the company have been unjustly censured I have thought perhaps the conduct of the Baileys was not as censurable as some here wish to make it appear. The family all send much love to you. I shall look anxiously every mail a letter and hope you will tell us when to look for home. Trust in God my dear children for every th who is able and willing to assist you in every difficulty He will guide and protect you if looked to. He is a never failing Friend though all others should forsake you. I hope you read your bibles, you will their learn your duty not only to your Creator but to your associates for kindness and courtesy is there enjoined upon all and every selfish feeling discouraged. If we only desired to be useful and happy in this world the bible is the best model by which to form a perfect character that will be loved and respected by our fellow creatures. That you may not only enjoy happiness in the fleeting hours of this life which will soon end but that you may enjoy a higher degree of happiness in the life which is fast approaching and has no end is the prayer my dear children of your affectionate Ma M.B.C. Ramsey July 3. 1850. My Dear Sons - I will add a line or two Mas letter & write you more freely when I shall receive your letters from St. Francisco as I expect to every mail. Dont think of you seventeen reprending back the out fit of the whole Co. It is too heavy a liability. & there is no justice in it. Make what you do for yourselves & get enough to bring you back next winter - or

Page 4

if you cannot do better, sell a draft on me for as much as will bring you home. I have no confidence in your leader nor in the success of the enterprise. We wrote to you often at St. Diego & other places - if you got our letters you are pretty well up with the news of the day. But I will write soon again - at least if we hear that you have arrived at St. Francisco Mr. D. wrote Apl. 13. from Los Angelos - via St. Diego so that it cannot be long before we will receive letters from you. God bless you Dear W. & A. prays your Af. Father J.G.M. Ramsey Mecklenburg T. July 3. 1850. Paid 10 Due 30 W.W.A. & F.A. Ramsey of Tennessee now at St. Francisco California

