Page 1

Washington July 27. 1850. Dear Crozier Since I wrote you at Dalton my movements have been so telegraphic that I have not often had a minute of leisure to devote to any thing but eating a hurried dinner or other meal along the road. Think of the speed - you eat breakfast at Chattanooga on the bank of the Tennessee river this morning to morrow morning you take breakfest at Aiken S.C. several miles east of the Savannah. At 2 O'clock of the same day you are in Charleston. Thus passing from the western base of the Apalachian chain to the coast of the Atlantic in about thirty two hours. I leave you to compute through these data the time which will be consumed in a trip from Knoxville to Charleston, when the R. Road shall be completed from Dalton to your city. The time is so short - the transportation so rapid - that when you pass over the route the first time you can scarcely realise where you are & how you got there. I have passed over most of the route often but every time I am impressed more & more with the grandeur & magnificence of the public works of Georgia & South Carolina - & equally so with the inappreciable importance of an extension of these works to Tennessee. To say not one word about the results that must follow a commercial identity between the South Atlantic & the West or the reciprocal social improvement that will accompany it I ask you to look for a moment only at its effects upon our own people & our own interests. In my last if I recollect right I said or began to say something on the subject but the whistle of the locomotive admonished me that I could not then enlarge upon the idea & it was therefore given to you incomplete. I say then here briefly that earlier in the growth of Tennessee no one of her citizens - especially no young man dared

Page 2

ever to feel that his life was purposeless or that it must remain necessarily uneventful. At that day every one hewed out his own fortune by his sword - his manly energies or his noble self reliance. In every department of life a field was opened up for the display of abilities - & a theatre presented to the aspiring - the ambitious & the energetic for the manifestation of those virtues & excellencies that signalized so immently the lives of our older citizens. A wilderness was to be subdued - defences were to be erected & the savage had to yield to civilized man. The foundations of government were to be laid - the structure of society to be formed - & the beneficent institutions of learning and religion were to be established. The Anglo-American & especially the South Western pioneer was competent to the full discharge of all these lofty functions. To their adequacy for all these duties let the part of Tennessee be the evidence & the proud memorial. But I beg to enquire, is the field any where unocupied? - is the theatre still open on which the younger men of the country may still be employed with credit to themselves & usefulness to Tennessee? Or are all channels of enterprise & distinction so filled up or obstructed as to drive much of the virtue, intelligence, capacity & public spirit of our people into involuntary exile & expatriation? You know I never despond - but the time has been when an unwelcome answer would have been given to these questions. Candor would not have allowed a different one. The insulated position of our country - the obstructions to its common with world - the value of our products entirely sunk in the exportation of them to a market - had paralized the energies & weighs like a heavy incubus upon the vitals of our people. The heart of the farmer sunk at the

