Page 1

THE KNOXVILLE SENTINEL THURSDAY, JUNE 5, 1919 CAPT. E.F. Wiley DIED THURSDAY In Coal Business Here for Sixty-Nine Years, Son of Coal Pioneer Capt. Edwin Floyd Wiley died Thursday morning at 5:30 o'clock at his home, 1317 White avenue, West Knoxville. Funeral services will be held Friday afternoon at 3:30 o'clock at the residence. Interment will be in the Old Gray cemetery, Rev. Roy E. Vale, D. D., will conduct the obsequies. Active pallbearers will be J. T. Garrett, John K. Gillespie, T. D. Morris, L. M. G. Baker, J. K. Griffin and W. B. Henderson. Honorary pall-bearers, Capt. William Rule, S. B. Dow, Jas G. Crumbliss, Chas. F. Eager, Chas. Hays Brown, Ed Maynard. Capt. Wiley was one of the oldest and best known citizens of Knoxville. He had attained his eightieth birthday, having been born in Kingston, Tenn., Jan. 13, 1839. He is survived by his widow and four daughters and four sons. In early life Capt. Wiley engaged in the coal business, his father, the late Col. Henry Howard Wiley, having been the pioneer coal land owner and operator in this section. It has been said of Col. Wiley that he probably owned more coal lands in East Tennessee at the time of his death than any other individual. Among his holdings, and of which sections he had inaugurated coal developments, were mines in the Oliver Springs, Coal Creek and Kentucky coal fields. Thus the sons of Col. Wiley were "brought up" in the coal business. Capt. Wiley, whose death occurred Thursday, began his career a coal operator in 1869, thus giving almost fifty years of his life to that pursuit. With his father he opened up the Knoxville Iron company's mines near Coal Creek, in 1869, later years he developed other uable properties, and also was a e dealer in the output of mines he E Tennessee fuel fields. H ntained offices in this city, s in active business until ealth was impaired, and he reti n commercial pursuits. For the st eighteen months he has been n a more or less serious condition, and about two weeks ago his physical status became critical, following what is believed to have been a slight stroke of apoplexy or paralysis, from hich he did not recover. As a business man, Capt. Wiley was progressive and constructive. He was a vital factor and leader in the mining and other developments in the years of his greatest activities as a coal operator. When the Civil war ensued, Mr. Wiley enlisted under the stars and stripes, and became captain of Company F, Fifth Tennessee volunteer infantry. He fought valiantly through the hostilities of the sixties, at the conclusion of which he returned to his home, and became a citizen of Knoxville, remaining here until death. He was married to Miss Mary Catherine McAdoo and sister of ex-Secretary of the Treasury W. G. McAdoo. Mrs. Wiley survives, as do her four daughters: Misses May, Eleanor and Catherine Wiley, and Mrs. Octave Letorey, all of this city. Also four sons: Dr. Edwin Wiley, of Newport, R. I.; and Ernest, Robert and Noel Wiley, all of Nashville. Capt. Wiley was a member of the Second Presbyterian church, in which e was prominent during his years activity. He was also a member of e Grand Army of the Republic. Capt. Wiley was a splendid citizen, an estimable gentleman, a capable business man, a devout Christian and loyal friend. He was widely and vorably known. His death will be ented not only by his family and nate friends, but wherever he own. To his bereaved widow ons and daughters, sincerest les are extended.

