Page 1

Frm J.G.M. Ramsey. P.M. Mecklenburg T. Crozier Ramsey Esq. Knoxville Tennessee

Page 2

New-York July, 29. 1850. Dear Crozier I left Washington yesterday at 5 O'clock - supped in Baltimore at 7, breakfasted in Philadelphia this morning at 6 & reached this city before twelve. I have already seen many Tennesseans here & acquaintances from other places Indeed this metropolis is the world in miniature. The heat is at this time excessive & I learn that the thermometer has been several days steadily above the usual average. The Croton can scarcely keep me below fever heat; yet the city is said to be healthy - altogether so. I really envy you your pure East Tennessee mountain breezes - your bracing atmosphere - your quiet seclusions in the country - your cool shades - your clear springs & your salubrious climate. Why has any one abandoned them - why will any one hereafter forsake them for the tumult of the city or the privations of the wilderness? Heretofore there has been much cause for the migratory character of our people. Their native spirit of enterprise exploration & adventure has in all time past made them the pioneers of civilization in all the great West; & tho this spirit will not be restrained, certainly not satiated, while there is a weaker race in North America to be conquered or a new country to be settled & improved, yet now when Oregon & California are ours & our Tennessee adventurers have seen the El Dorado of the West & gazed upon the broad Pacific, may we not hope that the great flood of emigration pouring forth from it for half a century & which has so - (I had almost said depopulated) - much retarded the growth of her population will in some degree be staid & her sons, with filial piety, remain at home to improve, adorn & rejuvenize their mother State. This rejuveniscence of Tennessee if sober calculation does not greatly mislead me is just at hand.

Page 3

Our great river Tennessee is already taped by the Georgia Railroad & for a portion of the year a part of the State is thus directly connected with the Atlantic Ocean & through it with the commerce of the world. This has already had a marked influence upon the agriculture & other pursuits of the countris most continguous to it. But much - nearly all, still remains to be done to enable Tennessee to avail herself of the advantages which her southern neighbours have place within our reach. Her own Rail Roads must be completed before Tennessee becomes - what she will become - the garden spot of the West. I need say nothing of our temperate latitude - nothing of our fertile & self regenerating soil. I will mention tho, our proximity through the improvements now under execution, to the best markets in the world for our products. East Tennessee is essentially an Atlantic country & if the E.T. & G. R.R. were constructed, could supply in shorter time & at less expense of transportation the means of subsistence to the sections south of her, than any other. In these respects we can have no rival. With that road finished to Knoxville the country would become at once regenerated & renewed. New impulses would be given to our industry in all its varied channels - new incentives to exertion in all its modified forms - new stimulants to enterprise - new guaranties of profit to both labor & capital - new evidences of thrift & prosperity, - & a new theatre opened up for the exercise at home of the industry - the vigor - the skill the capacity & the wealth of our own people But I weary you with these hastily written remarks - I am Very affectionately yours &c. J.G.M. Ramsey

Page 4

P.S. Tuesday Morning I left a strong written memorial about our horse route in the hands of Mr. Furney - he will present it to day at furthest - & if successful will forward to me on my return here from Boston where I expect to go to morrow. Keep all my letters & papers for me at home. I hope to leave for Tennessee next week.

