Page 1

Frm J.G.M. Ramsey, P.M. Mecklenburg T. Mrs. M.B.C. Ramsey Mecklenburg Near Knoxville Tennessee Kindness of Mr. Pickle P.S. With my affectionate regards to all of your worthy family Ever your friend John Roberts Mrs. M.B.C. Ramsey

Page 2

Irving House N.Y. Sep. 18. 1850. My Dear Wife I wrote hastily to you or Crozier three days ago & mentioned then that I had arrived here well. It has been a source of much anxiety to me that I have not received a line from any of you since Crozier wrote me at Nashville. I must get a letter to day or my anxiety will be increased. Even the Knoxville newspapers have not come to Yates & the reading rooms. Anything from Tennessee would be now so cheering & acceptable. I feel consoled by the hope that you & the rest are all well. I am quite so. The weather here is pleasant & since I have stoped travelling I am improving every way. The night I left Nashville the stage was crowded & they would have the blinds up & as tobacco chewers must be next the windows I took cold & never entirely overcome it till I got here. It was not less a disappointment to me than I know it must have been to Liddy that I cold not go by Richmond & see the poor child but I heard at Bardstown that the Ohio by the prevalent fogs & low water could not be ascended to Pittsburg & I at once determined to turn off to Louisville & take the Lake route to this City. I enjoyed the travelling pretty well but the voy

Page 3

age was a little stormy. We passed the wreck of the Griffin in which so many were lost. I shall have a great deal to tell to our young folks about Ohio - Sandusky City Buffallo. The falls of Niagara. My sail down Lake Sencha & the trip along the Erie Rail Road. 56 hours only are required to come from Cincinnati to N.Y. Nearly four hundred miles are passed the last day. Tell M.J. & H. that I have not yet been to see the Swedish nightingale Jinny Lind - nor to hear the warblings of the best vocalist in the world. I dont know that I will go. I hear nothing else but her name every where Jinny Lind hats - bonnets - kanes - books - boots & even sausages. I believe as I told the brokers this morning that I will call my bonds Jinny Lind stocks - as nothing under any other name will sell now in N.Y. Tell them that I have given into the prevailing mania only so far as to buy some Jinny Lind music for them. I cannot say when I will leave here - probably Friday. I have made no sales & received no offers that I will entertain. I must stay a short time longer here & at Philadelphia to feel the stock market. If I can sell only enough to pay the duties on the first cargo of iron I will repair immediately to Charleston & Savannah but will write you occasionaly before I reach there. At present I think I will

Page 4

be next Sunday 22nd in Philadelphia. Sunday 29th in Charleston & during the succeeding week be at Savannah. Or if the first cargo comes to Charleston I will be with you soon after. I can say nothing about business at home. I know our little managers there will do every thing that boys of their age can do about the farms - crops &c. I am more uneasy about sickness there than any thing else - but our kind heavenly parent can take care of & protect us alike absent or together - at home & abroad in sickness & in health & to his good Providence I commit you all. Let Crozier stay with you as much as he can spare time his business. I think on account of the scarcity of corn some of our horses had better be sold if fair prices can be got for them. I have no news from California that you do not see. The next steamer takes out the Pacific Mail & I will write by it to our wanderers. I wrote to you all along the route but expect my letters may not have reached you. They were left in the R.R. offices & cabins of S.B. Captains & written so hastily that you are as well without them. Love to you my dear Peggy & the children & good wishes to all friends

