Page 1

Frm J.G.M. Ramsey. P.M. Mecklenburg T. Mrs. Margaret B. Ramsey Mecklenburg Knox County Tennessee Via Charleston & Augusta

Page 2

ineplore Friday Night My Dear Wife The last intelligence you had from me I believe was from Charleston. I left that place Wednesday 4 O'clock - had rather a boisterous voyage & an uncommon number of passengers - nearly all of whom were sick - some of them very sick. I slept none - had no berth - & if there had been a spare one it was too hot & sultry to live below deck From C. to Wilmington by a steamer & from the latter to the Potomac by R.R. is certainly the hottest & most fatiguing travelling I ever did in all my life. I have slept none now for two nights I feel weary & disposed to sleep & the moment this letter is finished & sent down to the Bar I will be in bed. I got here about 4 O'clock covered with dust smoke cinders but soon refitted & called out to see some of our M.C's from Tennessee so as to be prepared for presenting Croziers business before the P.O. Department to morrow. I could find none of them but Ewing from Nashville who treated me politely. Genl. Houston was here ten minutes ago & has just left. He wished to serve me any way he could. All the haste of the Board at Athens is just as I told them it would be for nothing. That is my present impression. I do not believe a bond can be sold at par & of course no iron can be bought. Keep this to yourself I have one resource left if others fail. Judge Keyes was afraid of encountering the U.S. Marshall here or the Cholera - perhaps both & went straight through to New-York where he will find more of it than here. I dont think it is bad any where here north. Never indulge uneasiness about my taking it. I can be more careful hereafter than heretofore. I have slept too little & eaten too hurriedly. I will take it more leisurely hereafter. Monday I go on to New-York & will write you or Crozier again. Love to all of you & God's blessings attend you prays your af. J.G.M. Ramsey

