Page 1

Camp near Somerset, Pulaski Co, Ky Sunday, May 17th 1863. My own Darling, You see that we are about out of paper, for I have been driven to the use of this scrap, which I found in my tent, lying around loose, some one having set out to write and then having kindly abandoned the undertaking for my especial benefit. This I esteem a piece of unmitigated good fortune. I hasten to inform you of my doings since our leaving Monticello, of which you have been apprized, if my letter thence ever reached you. May 5th Left Camp, during a pretty smart shower at noon, taking up a retrograde line of march. Encamp in a country burial ground, a little over 7 miles from the river. May 6th - Wet, cold & disagreeable. We reach "Stigall's Ferry," a means of crossing the river, unworthy the name of Ferry, as we, at least, employ the term. It consists of two flatboats plied by immense oars at the stern, by way of rudder & worked across the river by a hand over hand movement along ropes stretched across, to about the height of a man's head. During the attempted passage of one of the boats loaded with some of the 27th New Jersey, some of the hands let slip their hold, - by this means the boat was

Page 2

carried down by the stream, to the other rope, at which the men grasped instead of bowing their heads as they passed under. This caused a capsize & the sacrifice of 33 lives. Everybody regretted the accident, more particularly as the Regiment were within a month of going home, their time being up by expiration. All crossed with the exception of the wagoners. May 7 - Rainy, but more cold than wet. All day upon the bank, watching the passage of the train and the swimming across of the horses belonging to Wolfert's Cavalry, who came up with us during the night, as far as the opposite side of the Ferry. May 8. - Left our camp, if such it may be called at about 12 noon. Clearing up finely. Reach Somerset in a few hours where we encamp in a grove near an enclosed pasture ground. May 9. - The mail comes into camp in delightful abundance. I hear from you, get some papers and am of course happy May 10. - Exciting news from Richmond, Va and as it comes to us of a gratifying tenor. The 103 Ohio, opposite us even venture upon sundry hearty cheers, but our regiment having become used to these excitements by virtue of a longer term of service, discredit the account, assuring each other "That it is too good to be true"

Page 3

May 11. - Dispatches conflicting - Newspapers scarce & demand great. - Write home. May 12. - Gradually settle down to the belief that the Richmond affair is however not as good as it might be May 13. - Write home. Weather delightful. May 14. - Day warm & clear. May 15. - Nothing worthy of note. May 16. - At evening visit the Lodge here, in accordance with a written invitation to all brethren to be present if so inclined, which invitation was posted upon one of the trees near my quarters. Met a New Jersey Captain there, who was brought up in Houston St and knew all the parts thereabouts. We compared notes and spent a pleasant half hour together. May 17 - To day is a most delightful Country Sabbath, reminding me very forcibly of a certain one we enjoyed together at Uncle Richard's. You may wonder that my diary is not more eventful, but you must remember, my darling, that even Camp life is montonous. A continual reproduction of the same scenes, probably wearies us much more, than my detailing them does you, and for that reason, I don't hesitate writing to you concerning them. I was just

Page 4

dreaming of our Sunday nights at Chapin's & Osgood's and of Milburn's delightfully imaginative discourses - indeed, my precious, were I the possessor of Aladdin's lamp, rubbing I would wish and be at your side to-night. But how vain are wishes - how cruel that so near to each other, nay, one, in heart, so many weary miles divide us. Jeannie, it seems that some mysterious destiny must have decreed that I of all our family, must labor the most with the least credit, comfort and profit. Even to the extent of virtual exile from home and from those I hold most dear, has this avenging Nemesis pursued me. Ah me, I can only sigh and puppet-like be moved with the wire. Then too what adds poignancy to my feelings is the consciousness that you are suffering also in mind & are beset with trouble, while I, than whom I know you have no more heartfelt sympathizer, am absent. Jeannie, darling, how cold the world without love - how glorious with it. What would I not give to feel the soft pressure of your hand around my own, - and watch your many winning ways and hear your earnest voice. But I will cast aside this gloom - I will still look to the future as bing fraught with lvoe & all the charms of home. Had I loved you less, my pet, I would have remained - nay don't feel hurt - let me explain. It was, indeed, a most delightful home, but the time for sacrificing my comfort for your future good demanded that I should struggle in other fields. Though hard to leave you, my love for you made me the hero - and it is, therefore, that I contemplate that act with pride, because it was made up of so much self-denial. So when I return I shall expect a few extra-kisses &

