Page 1

Frm J.G.M. Ramsey, P.M. Mecklenburg T. J. Crozier Ramsey Esq. Knoxville Tennessee

Page 2

Irving House Sep. 21. 1850. Dear Crozier I wrote to your Ma two days ago & now write you merely to say that I am quite well but extremely impatient under my disappointment of not having received the least intelligence since I got here. Some of you I must believe have certainly written me. You may have addressed it to Philadelphia or the mails may have miscarried. I hope nothing has occured at home that you were unwilling to communicate. I am impatient too from another consideration. My bonds will not sell. I have not a single offer that I can entertain Stocks are still depressed. It requires patience & firmness to manage this agency The brokers form combinations against a seller of these securities & sometimes drive them out of the market. I must have a few thousand dollars to pay duties with. After that I will have a breathing spell. My friends have persuaded me that next week things will be more favorable & I will therefore remain here till Monday when I will go over to Phila

Page 3

delphia - try that market a few days & get my face turned south. I will have to stay a few days in Charleston or Savannah - where you will of course address me Genl. Greene of St. Francisco is in the house & I have requested an interview with him to enquire something about your brothers. Should I learn any thing I will immediately communicate it. Tell our ladies that I have called to see Mrs. Greenway (of Abingdon) several times She is here with a diseased son seeking medical aid for him. She is disconsolate on account of his situation. Frank & I could cure him. I also called to see Miss Mary Cowan who is here at school. She is a pretty & very lady like girl & apologised for not calling to see Margaret Jane. I have also seen Mrs. Pulliam . Tell your Ma that the prescription I sent back to her from Philadelphia for her sick child effected a cure & both parents have told me that it was almost like one raised from the grave. Mr. Dickinson is here & tho at home we are a little (I dont know for what reason) distant here we are very intimate & confidential. Susan he bought & gave me a small present for you

Page 4

J. S. King called to see me two days ago. & old Judge Johnson from Tellico - Rice from Rogersville & Jones from Greeneville. Gates I see every day & he is very kind. Mr. Ravenel of Charleston asked very kindly to day for my family & Claiborne & other West Tennesseans I frequently see. But I can hear nothing from home - can make no negociations of my bonds & occasionally I wish my agency were over & I quietly at home. But some body must do it & I may as well as any one else Politics are absorbed in this city by commerce. In the streets nothing said on the subject & in the hotels all parties are a little on their guard. I see tho' no return of genuine fraternal feeling & little ground to hope for a restoration of stable & permanent quiet between the two sections. Tell Major Swan & Lyon what I have said about the price of the bonds. I am offered 1 1/2 premium - which is just par & I wont take it till I am sure I can do no better. Love to all Yours affectionately J.G.M. Ramsey.

