Page 1

Office Supt. Freedmen West Tennessee Memphis Tenn. 31st May 1864 Lieut. Jno. F. Perry Adjt. Freedmen's Dept. Sir: Appended please find my report for the month ending 31st May 1864. Financial. Remaining on hand per last Report $470.81 Receipts during the month as follows For Tax $152.76 " Wood $441.00 " Merchandise $535.05 " Labor $265.00 " Transportation $40.00 " Vegetables $15.75 " Rags $ 7.45 Total $1927.82 Expenditures For Disbursement in B. M. Department $410.00 " Stationery $13.75 " Labor $915.08 " Garden Seeds $10.70 " Merchandise $423. 68 " Incidental expenses $61.65 Total $1834.86 Ballance on hand $92.96 The Freed people of the city are a source of no small annoyance. Since it has become a part of the duties of this office to issue papers, we have

Page 2

been as discreet as possible giving permits to some except those properly vouched for, but, I find that there are those even i nthe chaste city of Memphis, who scruple not to "vouch" for those to whom they rent their houses at exhorbitant prices, providing they get their money at stated times, no matter where or how that money is obtained. If I succeed, as I hope to, in establishing a precedent where those vouching for vagrant negroes will be made to pay for their thefts etc. I hope to rid the city of many who are a nuscience and would be much better off in camp. I am sending, in compliance with your circular, of date February 17th 1864 cases of sickness daily, to the Freedmen's Hospital, and the vagrants, and those guilty of illicit offences to the Island Camp. A great majority of those remaining in the city are economical and industrious, receiving liberal wages, saving money and establishing the fact, beyond contradiction, that, the negro is capable and wiilling to maintain himself. The city schools. These are within the limits of the city (5) Five schools, containing in all near (700) seven hundred pupils. These schools are supplied with competent, energetic and experienced teachers, and are supported by the freed people themselves, without expense to the government.

Page 3

Much credit is due the military authorities here for the lively interest they have took, and are still taking in this commendable and philanthropic work. Every protection, and every facility, for the successful conduct of these schools has been promptly and cheerfully given by the military. The teachers, too, in their persistent perseverance in establishing these schools in the face of so many discouraging circumstances and in oposition to the long established prejudices of the citizens against the education of the colored people are worthy of the highest commendation. There is, in my estimation, nothing, so essential in preparing these people to think, to act and to provide for themselves as the normal training, together with the general information of practical utility they are receiving in these schools; and as they can be conducted with little, or no detrement to the department in general every encouragement and assistance in my power will be given them. Holly Springs The number in this camp has been but slightly changed since my last report. That our strength may not be over estimated, I would say that all those entitled to full rations are reported as men and women, many of whom are merely boys and girls of 14 years of age. This camp reports as follows, Men

Page 4

228, Women 1157, Children 938, Total 2823 Schools The building of which I spoke in my last report is now used for school purposes and for worship although not quite complete. The schools of this camp which are in a very prosperous condition are (4) Four in number having in all (471) Four hundred and seventy one pupils, (144) One hundred and fourty four Males and (227) Two hundred and twenty seven Females of these (186) One hundred and eighty six can read, (103) One hundred and three can write and (89) Eighty nine are studying arithmetic. Shiloah. The camp by this name, which, is situated immediately north of Holly Springs camp, and is composed principally of the wives and families of soldiers, was ordered by Genl. Buckland Comdg. District of Memphis, to be consolidated with Camp Holly Springs, and the people and houses moved as rapidly as practicable. This was a pretty heavy and important job - when we take into consideration that all the buildings (75) seventy five in number were to be taken down, hanled one mile and rebuilt - and I detailed Lieut. B. F. Foreman of Co. "of" 63d Regt. U.S.A.(Colored) and charged him with the execution of the

Page 5

order, furnishing him at the same time all the assistance in my power to facilitate the work. The camp is not more than half removed but the work still goes on. Brick Yard I have in hand about (150.000) One hundred and fifty thousand brick ready for market and another kiln in process of completion. Am sorry to state that the Brick enterprise does not promise so well as when I commenced my yard, in consequence of the inactivity of contractors, since the suppression of trade by Genl. Washburn - however I hope to be able to dispose of all I have, at a price that will leave a pretty nice margin after the expenses are all paid. President Island. Believing that the interest of the camp, and the dignity and integrity of our organization demanded that a commissioned officer be put in charge of the Island. I accordingly detailed Lieut. Jos. C. Walker of Co. "K" 63d Regt. U.S.A.(Colored) as Superintendent - Under his administration, every resource is developing finely. Wood cutting goes on with spirit and energy. The farm is in spendid condition, the vegetables just coming into market, order and discipline prevails, and a spirit of unity and mutual confidence pervades the entire camp.

Page 6

This camp reports as follows viz : Men (165) One hundred and sixty five, Women (333) Three hundred and thirty three, Children (328) Three hundred and twenty eight, Total (826) Eight hundred and twenty six. Schools. The schools of the Island, (4) Four in number are well managed and are progressing very satisfactorally. They report in all (250) Two hundred and fifty pupils of these (120) One hundred and twenty are reading and (40) Forty have learned to write. (200) two hundred is the average daily attendance. An industrial school has been organized under the charge of Miss Eliza Mitchel, of which we hope to be able to speak in our next report. General Remarks The condition of the freed people through the district is daily improving, and while there are many things we would like to remedy, perhaps one success is as great as we have any reason to expect. In consequence of complaints entered daily at this office, against citizens refusals to pay Freedmen for their labor, I addressed a communication to the Provost Marshall asking if such cases came under my jurisdiction and if so, stated that I should investigate them. Capt. Williams referred the matter to General Washburn who authorized one to investigate. The work thrown into my

Page 7

hands by this order is sufficient if properly attended to, to occupy half my time. If a man of proper integrity, and sound discretion could be appointed Provost Marshall of Freedmen at this place I think the good of these people would be subserved by the arrangement. I cannot see the justice of any law or ordinance that fines a negro (10) Ten and a white man (5) Five dollars for the same offence, yet I am creditably informed that such a course is uniformally pursued in this city. I have hitherto forelorn to say anything on the military branch of our department at this place, but I feel compeled to state that the reputation and the efficiency of the organization and all identified with it. has been impaired by the want of proper clerical assistance. It will be perceived, from the foregoing report that Capt. Hay Commands the Detachment, the camp and his own company without the assistance of either a Lieutenant or an orderly. Sergeant Harrison being home on furlough, and promoted in the meantime. Each of these positions require an action and efficient officer. If you could send me a live man to take charge of Holly Springs Camp, Capt. Hay with a good orderly ought to manage the duties of company and Detachment commander.

Page 8

Co. "B" too, should have what it has never yet had, an orderly Sergeant, although Lieut. Striblin accomplishes all that it would be possible for a full compliment of officers to accomplish, but his duties are too confining. In justice to Lieut. Striblin as an officer allow me to say that in my opinion there is no company in the whole organization that can excell his in discipline, drill or in soldierly bearing, and that no officer in any command can show a more correct set of papers than he. Very Respectfully Submitted Thos. Thackery Capt. 63 d Regt. US.A. (Colored) and Supt. Freedmen West Tennessee

