Page 1

Jw H Patrick A. Hamilton Deed of Trust T. D. Allen for the Benefit of R. Alexander & D. Burford

Page 2

Know all men by these presents that we John W. Hamilton & Patrick A. Hamilton for and in consideration of the sum of one dollar to us in hand paid by Discon T. Allen, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, have bargained, sold, and delivered unto said Allen the following deserted property, to wit one stud horse four years old last spring of bay colour, and known by the name of John Miller, also two black horses about eight, or nine years old; also two brown mules now in the possession of Richard Alexander, and a Jinny; and also a gray mare called blue eyed Marry, also a four wheel carriage and also one brown & one gray mare and six colts, four yearlings & two spring colts. To have and to hold to said Allen for the uses and purposes herinafter expresses for no other; - Whereas said John W. Hamilton and Patrick Hamilton have this day executen their joint note payable to Richard Alexander & David Burford on the first day of February next for one thousand and twenty dollars and fifty-three cents: now if the said John W. Hamilton, or Patrick A. Hamilton, or any other purson for them shall well and truly pay or cause to be paid unto said Alexander or Burford the aforesaid note at the time it falls due them or in that case said Allen is to reconvey said property to said John W. or Patrick A. Hamilton, but if said note is not punctually paid at the time aforesaid it is hereby made the duty of said Allen on the applisation of said Alexander or Burford, to advertise at Hartsville & at Dixons Spring at least five days before the day of sale and sell the whole of the above described property for cash or so much tereof as shall be sufficient to satisfy said note & interest and also

Page 3

the expense of keeping said horses. it is further understood by and between the partys that said Alexander & Burford or either of them are to have absolute control over the whole of said horses, mules, Jinny, carriage & costs so far as to take care of, or have them taken care of excpet the two black horses which it is agreed that said Hamilton is purmited to ride or take to the lower country, but is to return them; and it is further understood and agreed by and between the partys that if any sale should be made by the trustee Allen that the same shall be absolute and convey the property as fully as the original owners could do, and that the same shall not be dedeemable. Witness our hands & seals this 3rd Dec 1830 JW Hamilton Seal PAHamilton Seal Witness Wm Sauderdale JLAnthony

