Page 1

Chattinooga, Tenn Oct. 16th " 78 Dear Father Well Father I will try and drop you a line although there is no news other than, {Yellow Fever} Chattinooga had before the Scorge about 15,000, inhabitants I hardly think 500 remain. the rest Excepting those dead, took refuge in the adjoining Mountains. Many of the Doctors are dead. and the plague has now got among

Page 2

the Negro populace and they are dying like sheep. Many die from fear. Many more from sorrow caused by the loss of departed friends often-times whole families go together you may be with a friend today, tomorrow You may hear of his death. Yes his burrial. Coffins are oftentimes shoved into the rooms of the dieing long before life is Ex- tinct. and many a reffugee who has illegible from other parts and fallen a victim to the plague in the hands of

Page 3

strangers. often witness the digging of their own graves. Most of the Towns and County have Quarentined against each other and the roads are Blocaded by quarentine guards, armed with pistols revolvers shot-guns rifles and rocks but a quarentine decree amounts to about so much moonshine just as though a man could not enter a County without traveling the road every time. Well these guards take their position upon the road and wait for a reffugee. When he appears in sight they scatter into the woods at a sufficient distance

Page 4

not to inhale his breath but within gunshot. When the man from the infected parts comes within proper distance he hears the report of a dozen guns. but this is not all he hears. he hears lead which he judges to be in motion. he at the same time hears the shouts of a dozen halts. he obeys the Order but waits for no more. he wheels around and strikes off with a velosity known only to that of electricity but unlike lightening he goes not in a zig-zag or Bee-line from. but described something of a circular form and

Page 5

when he takes his second halt is about a mile and a half inside of the guard line. of course these guards would not do to shoot in a match at Creedmore against any Foreign Team. but they can never the less scare like brimstone. but the guards are getting bolder now they walked right up to a man the other day. Collered him marched him up before the Mayor and just as his honor was prepareing his papers of Imprisonment and Fine. the wretched prisoner took a preten- ded Chill. accompanied by a terrible pretended pain in the head and

Page 6

back. and as everybody knows these are the preliminaries of Yellow Fever he was immediate released upon condition that he would leave the Country inside of 5 Minutes. he left grinning from ear to elbow leaving the limbs of Law to meditate over the ways that are dark and sticks that are plain but the hea- then Chinee is peculiar. Well Father as paper is scarce I must close for the present. Business is entire- ly suspended in C_a and everybody waiting for frost. I received an answer from my letter to Mother the other day. She said you were willing to aid me a little in my Pecuniary difficultys if you knew whare to send an order I will sugest it will be safe to send it to Chatt-a. the Office is open part of the day although The following text is upside down at the bottom of and in the left hand margin of the last page of the letter. it is in the worst part of this town for this fever give my best regards to all I will square this letter Father as soon as an opportunity permits Your Affectionate Son C S Crofut

