Page 1

No. 156 Revere House, Boston, Aug. 4. 1850. Dear Crozier Acting upon my well known principle of appropriating & employing even the fragments of my time I have snatched occasionally a few minutes from my regular engagements for the purpose of acquainting you with my movements. I left New-York yesterday at 5 P.M. I reached this place this morning before seven. In the Athens of America - with the Bunker Hill monument in full view - & surrounded by much that is associated with the dawn of American Independence - & with the patriotism & valor that achieved it - & witnessing as I do the evidences of the enterprise industry & thrift among the descendants of the Pilgrims & the patriots of the revolution I might be expected to select some one of these themes for a hasty letter. I must decline it however. You will find all that elsewhere & better said than I could say it. What I discussed in my last about the enhanced price that would result to our great st le, corn, from the construction of our railroad plies exactly in the same ratio to every other agricu ural product. All that can be extracted by the indu & skill of man from our fertile soil, will command a ready sale & at a remunerating price in the market south of us. Not the products of our fields only - but of the orchard - the meadows - the garden - the dairy - the poultry yard & the apiary. I need not be more minute. Everything of the kind will sell - sell well &, as I have many opportunities of seeing will bear transportation without deterioration. What would you think of a fish from Lake Michigan or a venison from a western Prairie in the market of New-York & Boston? The genius of Fulton has annih lated both time & space. You will live to see Major Lenoir's cellent pippins eaten in Charleston two days after they ripen & the products of your Ma's garden in the same market. But that is but one of the advantages our farmers will experience from the Rail Road. The appreciation of our lands everywhere over the country will necessarily follow. I will not give you the figures. I am astonished at what I see & hear of the increased value of real estate wherever these channels of communication are opened up. Why just this morning I saw along the route I came where New England patience is busily reclaiming land from old ocean - or cutting a slice out of a granite hill on which to build a house & form a field or a garden. Their R.R.s here are not taken through villages but villages follow & grow along the roads & an acre of land near one will command the price that will buy a small farm in Tennessee. This enhance

Page 2

ment in the price of land, leads to the subdivision & sale of our large plantations - alike the interest of the large land-holders & of the country at large. Of this you have a convincing proof at home. Every body knows that one hundred acres well cultivated & skilfully improved would be vastly more productive to the owner & to the country than five hundred slovenly worked & badly improved. It used to be said of North Carolina large land-holders that the more acres they worked & held the poorer they became. I am generally impatient under a slander against the old North State but I have seen something of the same sort in Tennessee & on this occasion choose not to vindicate our Mother state from the scurrility that makes the imputation. Were our larger plantations thus subdivided a more numerous & as I believe a more thrifty population would necessarily follow. There would be more neatness on the farm & more comfort & embellishment about the buildings & the grounds. But more. The labor of the country would not only be better increased but the usages of the hired laborers themselves be increased in a ount & in quality. They have long needed t is incentive to constant employment & to diligen & fidelity to their empoyers. The wonder is that they have been even as diligent or as fruitful they are. It has been said of Daniel Boon, that when the smoke from another cabin could be seen far off in the distance, from his own - or the report of a new settler's rifle could be heard by him, disturbing the quiet of th ancient woods, he became discontented & soliloquizing to himself would say "We are getting too thick here. I must go further" & taking up his trusty rifle would again plunge into the wilderness & again bury himself in its dark seclusions & its impenetrable wilds. So it will be when as we all expect & now desire, the locomotive shall have introduced Tennessee to the commerce the wealth - the fashion - the luxury - the vices & the crimes of the world many of us will say We are too thick here - let us go further. The infancy of a community is often perhaps most frequently the period of its g atest happiness - most perfect enjoyment & innocence. Faults it doubtless has, but like the indiscretions of youth these belong to & result from its immature age. The love of money has not belittled - corruption has not tainted - luxury has not effeminated (excuse me if I have made a verb) - crime has not stained - nor an ignoble subserviency to fash

