Page 1

Copy of answer To Gov. Albert S. Marks Letter of Nov. 13. 1879 -- appointing me delegate to Yorktown To His Excellency My Dear Sir Your esteemed favor of the 13th has been received. I feel greatly obliged to you for the offer you make of appointing me the Delegate from Tennessee to the Centennial Celebration at Yorktown Oct. 19, 1781. I consider your selection as highly complimentary to myself & the matter of it as the highest honor of my long life when you say it belongs to me as a matter of right. You over estimate any services I may have rendered to my native State -- proud, patriotic Tennessee when you say they amount to a right. I have only done "what I could". But Tennessee & her pioneers have a very valid & perfect right to be represented at Yorktown. Tho not one of the "good Old Thirteen" (to nominee) bore an early, a very active & most decisive part in the establishment of the American Independence.

Page 2

Her pioneers at Abinance in 17 formed the first armed defense against British mionela & Colonial Tyranny & the first armed resistance to arbitrary authority & usurpation. Driven from the field at Abinance they shook the cold from their brow crossed the mountains & at Watauga -- in a condition of political orphanage these bold & patriotic freemen laid the foundation of government & of freedom in Tennessee. It subsequent periods of the Revolutionary struggle these pioneers were the first to resist the advances of the British army & this ended in the defeat & capture & surrender of Cornwallis at Yorktown -- the Centennial of which approaches. Most cheerfully would I accept the appointment you have offered me in representing the descendents of so gallant an ancestry as ones at the approaching Centennial, but this in usual health & in the 83 year of my age the lamones which confined me to my room when I last had pleasure of seeing you have still continued & will make it almost physically impossible for me to attend. In disclaiming the high position your too great partiabity his assigned me I must add that it is done most reluctantly & almost against my full consent But imperative necessity must control my decision In the mean time I may not omit this opportunity to express to you my high appreciation of the honor intended me & the assurance of the consideration & esteem with which I am most Respectfully your Obt. Svt. J.G.M. Ramsey

