Page 1

Greenville 14 April 1864. Col O. P. Temple Dear Sir Yours of the 8 inst came to hand yesterday I have carried into effect your instructions & turned over as follows to Mr Rowan in Southern Bank notes $2,000 in Gin Lucas notes $1.700 in Va do $175.00 also an order to L S Gaforth for $1,800 in Gin Luas notes. I wrote him that you owed a debt created for the use of the salt co & greatly desired it to be at once settled, I requested him to give full proportion of 8 per cents as compared with sixes as he has all the 8 per cents. He knows no more I advanced the Luca notes of my own as we feared to disturb those allready in safe keeping I further wrote him W. M as he & myself both would soon see him to close up finally our business & carry up to him & Cansler their proportion of bonds & make a final close up of our business. Your suggestions in regard to salt will be carried out if posable I all the time urged to bring our salt here but those men insisted that Va was the place you will see from statements I have sent very near your exact proportion of all L notes.

Page 2

& took recpt for them. We were not prepared to decide what to do as WM had been spoken to & could not sue him in time. Mr R is an old acquaintance & very reliable in deed I have requested him to be on the look out for same one enquiring for him who would have my confidence. I may have mention that the flag of Truce has not yet arrived in this place this week if it does not arrive soon I will get Mr R a horse & he will. go on. I have nothing more of importance of a private nature to communicate. Yours Truly M.S. Temple

Page 3

I have been requested to give you my opinion in regard to the spirit that seems to have influenced some recent arrests in this County. We are an neutral Territory & if the will of men was to prevail and a spirit of retaliation is to prevail no man can tell where it will and and who are to be the greatest sufferers both in property & person, if consistant with the rules of war & useages governing the military at Knoxville looking to our general security I would be much pleased to see return those Citizens recently sent from this co to Knoxville tho if any release now at Richmond of other Citizens from this County who were as I think varry improperly sent there can be effected I am more than willing & would be glad to see it. But I have but little hope of their exchange at present - I signed an order jointly on you with James Allen for some money. All wright, those men are all very good I also signed by request a petition for the release of those men I did not read it but suppose it all wright.

Page 4

in all this you can more readily appreciate than I can describe and I am sure you will do as you think your duty & our general interest require. Yours Truly M.S. Temple

