Page 1

Knoxville Tenn Apl 11th 1865. Hon, Amos Gould, Dear Sir, On my return to camp yesterday from Presbytery, I was made glad by a letter from you, though one sentence in it would have surprised me much had I not known that many letters are miscarried. I know that I had written to you not long since, & on referring to my diary I find it was on Saturdy 25th March. Your letter is dated the 30th, so that mine to you had hardly time to reach you. I hope you received it soon after writing yours, for it will go to show you how anxious I am for the Paymaster to come along among us. It is now the Eighth month, and some of us are really distressed & in want of what cannot be had without money. But we cannot help ourselves, & grumbling makes the matter no better, so we get together sometimes and try to comfort one another. Why we should

Page 2

be thus kept in suspense & want is more than we can answer. If you were to ask me why I do not send money I would say "because I have none," but Uncle Sam cannot say so & to us it is a mystery. I know well that my friends whom I owe may think me very backward in paying, but when I get the money they will find that then there will be no backwardness nor delay. I am quite as impatient for it as are my friends & I long for the Pay Master to arrive but he comes not yet. You speak of Thomas' Army. I believe he did not go with it. But it was a heavy affair. Even the Generals & their aids were kept in entire ignorance. At first we learned that an order was given for "rations for 10,000 men" for some 8 or 10 days. We thought that was ominous of a big thing. In a few days the care began to increase, & the trains came in & passed on at the rate of from 10 to 25 trains per day, and we began to discover that we know nothing about the affair, & could not find any body that did. Ten Thousand, 20, 30, 40, 70.000 are passed & still they come & on they go, till

Page 3

it is said over 100,000 have passed toward Virginia. The last we have heard from them was that at Jonesboro Genl Stoneman sent the 10th Mich in advance toward Boonville & all the Cavalry marchd for Salisbury. Yesterday we had news of the surrender of Lee's Army, & from every Fort around Knoxville demonstrations of joy were given in the firing of cannon. If I understand the conditions of surrender, (at an hour when necessity would have compelled it) I regret that Grant should have offered any other than unconditional surrender, & then let Government show such mercy & leniency as might be wise & proper. Johnson may assume command and ask for the same terms. He has the same right, for he is no more in rebellion than Davis & Lee. But perhaps all is right & we do not get hold of the right end of the reports. Peaches, Plumbs, & Apples have been in blossom some time. The weather is charming. My best regards to each & all of your family. Most truly Yours Henry Cherry.

Page 4

Allow me to add that if Ebenezer Gould would come to this country he could make a splendid fortune in 5 years & were he to live here that length of time he would never leave this beautiful land. At Maryville 15 miles from this there is not a lawyer. There were 3, each doing a good business, but left with the Army & the changes which must around that one place be affected, will give a fortune to a lawyer. If I were a lawyer I see the finest field open before me that I ever witnessed. The chances are many. H Cherry April 11 1865

