Page 1

Clinton, Tenn, March 27th 1864 My Own Darling, And so to-day is Easter -- here it is bright, calm & glorious. Nature seems to be smiling out her joy. What divine associations cluster around the day -- a day to commemmorate a risen Saviour! Here we have no church or service of any kind, at home the occasion is made eloquent with songs of praise and sermons, choice-set with many a gem. How it would gladden my heart, were I at home with you, to accompany you to church, to renew once more those delightful Sunday afternoon rambles, and while roaming around to drink in the health-giving breeze! All this too during your favorite season -- Spring. I always feel sad, my darling, when absent from you on a holiday -- there comes over my spirits a feeling of isolation, of loneliness, a longing for your society to make the joy complete. I think of what you may be doing, wondering at your moods of mind, fearing lest your health be failing and, in a word, I have more apprehensions than hopes. I am continually worrying about your failing strength -- I fear that you do not take out-door exercise sufficient -- that your mind keeps brooding over gloomy subjects. I wish I had

Page 2

it in my power to dispel all these -- will not my darling strive to shake off these torturing fancies by seeking variety in change of scene, by visits among friends, &c.? It will not be so many months until we are "mustered out" and there is no probability of our seeing any active service, until the remainder of the regiment is exchanged, so keep up your spirits, my Jeannie. Then again, as soon as Colonel Carter returns from his "leave," which will expire about the middle of next month, I shall make application to proper authorities for one for myself for 30 days. I am sanguine of being successful, as I do not know of any refusals so far. This will about come up to month of May and will make a very handsome & convenient division of the time until my final release from service in August or September. I suppose that I should inform you that we are likely to have some trouble in receiving our pay -- now four months due -- owing to the capture of the Payrolls by the rebels, along with the rest of the regimental property. The Washington authorities have been written to by the Colonel, but I'm afraid that the duplicate rolls will not arrive in time -- in other words, I'm afraid that

Page 3

the Paymasters will be off before their arrival. Taking it altogether, I know Jeannie that you have concluded long ago that we have had it hard enough, without such difficulties as these, against which to contend. I have sent in my claim to the 3rd Auditors Office Washington, D.C. for $125.00 for loss of horse and equipments by capture. I met up with a Doctor who lost his under similar circumstances at the first Bull Run fight and who received pay for them. He instructed me in the making out the proper forms and certificates, all of which latter I succeeded in getting signed without much trouble. He says that if there are any errors in the papers, they will be pointed out and the papers returned for corrections. I hope that I may succeed -- if I do you shall have it all for a nice bureau or anything else you may be in need of. "Anyhow," says the Doctor referred to above, "it takes months for you to get the Certificate on the Treasury Dept." As soon as the weather gets a little warmer and all our tents arrive, we will strike out an encampment. We then can live more satisfactorily and cheaply -- for we can then inaugurate

Page 4

our old "mess system" and so have more variety of diet. The country, however, is getting poorer and poorer every day -- the people receive with gratitude the supplies sent them from the North they think with this little aid that they will be enabled to make out until Harvest time. I received a letter from Will of the 12th ult. in which he tells me of an addition to the boarders in East 32nd Street. But I informed you of having received it in my last, which was a very brief letter, and written with an execrable pen. You know that we have to go 18 miles from here, that is to Knoxville after our letters. Many of the letters that I head Clinton are actually written at Knoxville -- I do this that there may be no confusion in the address. Some of them I am obliged to write in great haste, just after making inquiries at the Post Office and almost invariably of late with disappointed feelings at receiving none from you. The 22nd February letter is still the last one that has come to hand. Has the landlord disposed of your house? Write me about your health -- tell me all the news. Still address me as Surgeon 2nd Ea:Tenn:Inf. Clinton via Knoxville Tenn. May Heaven vouchsafe you joy, health & strength -- protect and keep you is the prayer of Your devoted husband John.

