Page 1

Quarters Co "M" 1st U.S. Colored A. "Hvy" Greeneville Tenn Aug 16th 1865 Mr John J. King Sir One of my men has a wife on your place "Umy" by name. She has two children; "Cumpsy" or Tecumsey says if you will allow her to remain in the house she is in he will pay rent, (as much rent) as any reasonable man could ask. his wages are $16.00/100 per month, and he has money in bank already, so I guess he will be good for any small amount of a years rent. The Freedmans Bureau are going to establish a post in your part of the country in a short time. On account of the reports of misusage some have received from the hands of their former masters. there are allready quite a number collected here that have been driven away from there, that are to be taken back and used as evidence against some of those that have sent them away swiftly without even clothing to hide their nakedness. You have been a kind Mastro , so Ive heard and probably you can see far enough ahead to keep out of trouble. by acting right

Page 2

towards this peculiar people. The old political Ideas you must remember have been the cause of a long bloody war, now at an end, and probably you have suffered with the rest of us, in loss of property, & freinds. If so be wise and do not commit yourself by any act taht will cause you to loose more. when it can be avoided by a manly straitforward course with those of your blacks that are yet with you. I do not wish to threaten, or to dictate any course to you, but just a friendly warning, that will, if acted upon, make much in your favor. a court that is called the Freedmans Court is now in vogue, for such cases as are aggravated or where the blacks have been abused by whipping, by turning of, after they have worked all summer; Several cases have been reported in and about the place of Bristol and a court is to be established there, under the protection of the Military to try some cases if you wish to avoid being brought up there, act as I have intimated. Manly & strait forward & you will avoid it. I am sir Will R. Story Captain 1st U.S. A "Hvy" (for Tecumseh)

