Page 1

Harrodsburg Ky Nov 25th 1873 Dr. Ramsey; Knoxville Tenn Dear Dr.: I received your kind letter a few days ago-Your well remembered signature it is need less for me to say, called up many memories of past times,-times, when together in the house of God, we took sweet council: And, were it not a sort of treason, or infidelity-to my present charge, I might add, suggested the possibility of the recurrence , even on this side the River, of like sweet experiences. After reading your letter I gave it to my wife, who has filed it away with the papers that are included for our little daughter Mary . She wants her to have a letter from the pen of the historian of her native State, written at the age of 77, & in the uniform & steady hand, in which not a tremor is perceptible. And I want to preserve it, that I may refer to it in any lectures to young men, as an evidence & illustration of the fact, that it is not study & labor in ones profession that break down the mass of our men in America; but something else; dissipation, it may be, in many forms, & outside of their legitimate & professional calling.

Page 2

I am now telling our young men that it is not work, work of head & hand, & protracted thro ' many years, that is making such war on all the functions of mind & body-But on the contrary, it is the want of the steady habits, & steady work of our fathers. The brain, the heart, the nerves, the lungs, the liver, the spine, the limbs, the bone, the flesh, & every part & faculty of mind & body, are over-tasked & weakened, not by study & work, but by the terrifc energy of passion loosened from restraint, until, like a dilapidatid mansion, the earthly house of this tabernacle falls into untimely & ruinous decay. We must point our young men to our old ones, preserved & healthy in mind & body, who have been the workers in the pass generations; benefactors to their species in their own department; & , around whom, in the evening of life, gathers every thing that moral worth, & pity, and eminent usefulness, conspire to render venerable. And in this connection, how can I help thinking of your kins-man David Deaderick , when I heard of his death I was almost ready to say of him what has been said of Moses, " his eye was not dim nor his natural strength abated " -

Page 3

About the scheme you have on hand for another church in Knoxville I cannot trust myself to visit much. I hope you will go on with it, and that God will direct for our good & his own glory. My love to your dear wife. I am rejoiced that God has spared her to you in all your trials. Tell her I think of her as belonging to the old fashioned house keepers that have well well nigh passed away from this world. I remember well the dinner she set before our Presbytery in her house on the banks of the French Broad & Holston And I never got hold of a tender ham that I dont think of the ham you cut that day. I remember her as she sat at her table on the day, during the war, that I called at your house, long after the hour for dinner, & the luscious mince pies, & other good things that were put, as if by majic instantly on the table. I remember her as she walked with you, as she sat in her pew, & as she stood by the grave, at the funeral of her daughter

Page 4

the light of your house & pride of your life, whose remains sleep in the church yard by your old home. But enough-sad very sad-yet sweet are the memories of the past. God bless you & yours, my dear old friend & father. Like Paul, may you be able to say-I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, & have kept the faith, & hence forth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness. Love to Mrs Deaderick ' s family to bro Scott and all my old friends in Knoxville. My heart & soul flow out towards them, & whether I am permitted to labor with them or not in the masters vineyard here, I trust I shall meet them in the masters house of many mansions. Remember me to bro Park, bro Kennedy , & c, & c. Fraternally & affectionately I remain as ever yours in the best of bonds W.A. Harrison Wife & Mary join me in love.

