Page 1

Nashville August 11th 1865 My Dear Ma I received yours and Papas letters yesterday and was glad to hear that you were all well. I read all your letters with great interest and my Uncle and his family who read them with great pleasure My Uncle and all of them are very kind to me he is very comfortably situated and his two married daughters live near him they also have a Church near him and I go to church every Sunday Mr Trimble (their pastor) is a good preacher. I think a greatest about your situation and troubles I have taken great interest about the state of feelings in East Ten and their is scarcely a day but what I see either a Union or Southern man from there and I always make it my business to

Page 2

enquire as to the condition of things with a view as to advise you all as to the propriety of returning I have no doubt but the reports you hear from their are exagerated My own opinion based upon what I hear is that you could all return with perfect safty (except Robert) without having the sbigent fears of having any personal harm done to Papa or Mack neither would you be subject to any insults of any kind. I met with Capt. John McNutt (of the Fork and formerly of the Federal army) a few days ago I spent most of the day with him and took him out and spent the night with us at my Uncles he has the kindest feeling for you all and from him I learned the particulars as to the feeling about you all he says that all your old neighbors such men as Sam Bowman and others are very anxious for you to return and instead of having any thing against you they have

Page 3

great sympathy for you but would any thing in their power to serve you all John thinks you should all return at once. I could give you many reasons why I should think it best for you to return if I could see you but I will only mention the most important ones as they strike my mind you would be better satisfied if you move near your grandchildren where you could take care of the poor motherless children although you could live comfortably where you are yet your anxiety for them would always make you uneasy and still you would not be satisfied where you are Secondly by returning home the moral effect would be good in getting back your property McNutt said that the public sentiment was very much against those that purchased it and it might be that influences would be brought to bear (if you were all at home) that they would surrender the property upon the money being refunded or upon some compromise that might be better than to commence a suit Aside from this I believe that you could live cheaper and more comfortable and contented that where you are. You could live at Margaret Janes place in town or at Lenoirs in case . Another reason when you return if you should conclude not to remain there you would be in a better condition to select under the advice of your friends a future home. I would therefore make Knoxville home (at least) for future operations I would feel much more contented happy and less solicitous about you all if you move back at your old home than for you all still to remain exiles that gives me more pain than my own condition if you go to the trouble of getting a house and furnishing it and living there for a year yet I think it all unnecessary unless you have made up your minds never to return then after surveying all

Page 4

facts and sights before me from this point. I would advise you that when the weather gets cool and more pleasant for traveling (say the last of Sept or early in October) I would start for East Ten I suppose you could get transportation for all by that time Papa will I hope receive his pardon I believe all will turn out well and that you will all be glad that you have returned. The above is my candid advise but I leave the whole to your own better judgement you friends at Knoxville may be able to give you a more correct view than I can. The last letter I received from Margaret Jane she and all of our friends were well Aunt Hannah and Aunt Mary had returned Uncle Frank Keller was also at home unmaserted . Frank Ramsey (Uncle Johns son had also returned and was living at home undisturbed. The corn crop in East Ten is very promising James Cowan and family are all at home He or Mr Hismes or Dr. Lennox could give Papa correct information as to the propriety of his returning soon. Tell Papa that I expect to hear from Judge Patterson soon in regards to our applications and that I will note a while before I answer his letter. Do any of you know what had become of Maj R.B. Reynolds I have heard nothing from him since I was captured. I heard that Maj Wallace was living in Athens Ga and that he would be elected President of some Rail Road I hope he will if you all should go home soon perhaps he could give Robert a situation on the road. All the refugees from Middle Ten are returning and received kindly by the Union men When you all write write at different times and by that means I can get a letter from you once a week Will the mail communication be open soon to Charlotte. Remember me kindly and affectionately to all Will be pleased to hear from you all at any time Yours truly J.C. Ramsey

