Page 1

Knoxville Tenn. Monday January 25th A.D. 1864 Mr David Dennis Dear brother this morning I will try to Scrible you A few lines in Answer to your very welcom letter of the 4th of Jan. which I received yesterday your letter found me in the Enjoyment of good health with all the rest of the boys of your Acquaintance Except Wm Peden he has not been well all the rest of the boys are in the best of health And look well although they have Seen pretty hard times Since we have been in Tenn. part of the time we have been Very Scarce of rations And been Very bad off for cloths but times is A little better know we have all got good cloths our rations is not to plenty yet but Still we get Along pretty well we Still have money to buy A little to Eat with what we draw

Page 2

we have got back to winter quarters at knoxville we have been doing garrison duty in the forts the rebels are Still around they drove our men from Strawberry Plains About 16 miles Above here I can not tell what they are going to do Some thinks that we will have to Stand an other Seige here yet but I do not think we will I think the rebels are trying to get Away from here to form a Junction with what is left of Bragg Army one thing Shure there will have to be Something done here pretty Soon for there Can not too Armys live in here long there will one are the other have to leave here and I think that the rebels will have to leave for we have know notions of leaveing at all for this is the back bone of the rebelin for the rebs can not live with out the East Tenn. & Virginia rail road we have got possession of it here And I think we will try to hold it there is deserters comeing

Page 3

In from the rebel Army evry day they Say that longstreets Army is Sadly demoralized And very poorly clothed I think that the prospect for the war Ending Soon is good I think that the war will End this next Summer but it is hard to tell for I have thought it would of been over long Ago I was glad to hear of the boys Still Volunteering I glory in their Spunk that they do not wait for A draft but I must Say that I was Surprised at you for letting Isaiah go for he is to young to take care of him Self Among Straingers and particularly in the Army likely you thought that It would be Easy in Cavelry but you are badly mistaken I have Seen Enough to know that Cavelry is no Easy birth when you write again be Shure to give me the directions So I can write to him. I Am pleased to hear of So many geting married I wish them thumping luck And

Page 4

fine big boys I guess that all the best of the girls are left yet I think that all the best of them is waiting for the Soldiers they are foolish if they do not they have Strange Ideas when they will marry A home coward but likely they dont think that way. Well Enough of that nonsence I will have to close for this time give my best respects to becca And the boy And as many others as may inquire after my wellfare I will close by asking you to write Soon do not be So Careless About writing as you have been I have the honor to be Yours Most respectfully William H. Dennis P.S. Knoxville Tenn Jan. 25 A D 1864

