Page 1

Camp direction chattanooga Tenn Sept 20th 1862 Dear Henry I again seat myself to invite you again we have orders to leave and I will write you a few lines today for fear I dont get the chance to write you again soon. I am in pretty good health at this time. I am troubled yet with my bowels though not half so bad as when I wrote to you before. I hope these lines may find you and the family well. Wright and Newton is both in camp Wright has been at the Hospittal ever since I wrote to you before until yesterday he come to camp him and Newton is both improving though it is slow Newt is as poor as a shad they both Stay they with me the most of the Time Newton has been here about 4 or 5 days he has stayed with me every night since he got here. we will go from here to Knoxville on the cars and then take it a few feet across our regt all the Soldiers about this place are ordered away. we had orders yesterday evening to be ready to start to day by 12 oclock but we have heard nothing of it to day and the probability is that we want start before day after tomorrow which will be Monday, oh how I do want a horse to ride and go straight on to the regt as it is I will have to make out the best I can and only draw half pay. I think if I was at home

Page 2

that Brother Evan would let me have that Sorril Pony of his. She would make a far superior cavalry horse to what some of them are now in Service. I think that all men that are worth Property ought to try to help us poor creatures that have left our families to fight to protect them as well as our own families. the worth of a Horse wont be nothing to them and wont be of great help to us. Notwithstanding they have done a good part that is not like having all these property confiscated by the Yankees which would have been the case if it had not been for the Poor men of the country Henry you must excuse a short letter this time as I have so much knocking about to do that it keeps me bothired so I cant half write. I send you a song ballad and Narcissa can show it off from the one I send you and you must keep it Till I get home if I ever do. My respect to Mrs. and Mr. Sale and John and all inquiring friends My love to Brother Evan and Family and reserve a large share for yourself Kiss all the children for me oh if I was with them today it would be a treat to good for me to talk about unless I could be there Sure enough May God in his mercies Guide and protect you is my prayer for you all Good Bye for the Present W.T. Presley or Willie To Mrs H.A. Presley Henry when you get this you need not write until you hear from me again W.T. Presley

