STANDARD307DIARY1922Counting=House Calendar.1922.THEStandard DiaryFOR SALE BY ALL STATIONER.Published byTHE STANDARD DIARY COMPANY.SUNDAY, JANUARY 1, 1922 1-10 at 8:30Nenana cleanLast night was a sleepless night at the N.C. Dormtory after I went to my room from the masked ball.
					It was best the best ball of its sort
					I have ever seen. I danced only until twelve.This morning I came down on the train with Judge Clegg and we talked over otn Indian Durnce question He came by for drinks. More met is with the team and took him back for the Healy train This
					afternoon I read two wsdtes
						Fasty mails and this evening had prayers at Air church. No natiirs can.Mones tells me he was up until
					five this morning. Some boys were in the cabin. I hope there was no gambling or
					drinking. I suppose they just talked. I believe Mones. I trust him and beleive he is truthful. God be
					with him always.Gaither wicr Itun would ben is return at the crossing after
						Tann kowles read from
					"Ivanhoe" to night. We are just starting it.2 MONDAY, JANUARY 2, 1922- 12 all day 10: PMNenana cloudy-This morning I worked on my books and got a good deal done. This afternoon I went
					down town and saw Mr Hagen. We found that the notice for the permit had 1921 on
					it so he phoned to Harry Watson and received permission for me to change it with adding my initials.He is going with Moses up the river a ways some to see about a place where they
					are making liquor. I am glad he will have this chance to talk to Moses. Tin is a good man at heart.Dick Heame is going to haul some wood tomorrow and I am glad. We hear about 19
					cords cut now as I am going to take 10 from Dick at $900 per
					cord. Please God some money will come in soon.There was a dance at the Missin
					tonight and Moses went to the village afterwords. I am sorry we got a no studying. He dors nothin to study but neither do
					I. He can make it if he tries and I tuhn he will.TUESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1922 30 at 1:00 a mNenana cloudy & aridThose village people in their cruld way told Moses that he was too high toncs to come down and dance with
					them autt hurt thir feelings. I
					am sorry there was no study tonight. I do not know why but perhaps Moses does
					not really want enough to got
						bewnn. Please God he may have a greater desire and purpose and
					work to it. I am very sorry for some of the imptncnes he has. He took this NNexon cy to Mrs Keels today. They seemed to have
					had a long fun. Mrs K. called her Mrs Cruckshank. May last blur move in his marriage to
					whom girl where ever it fleoreth
					Him. Gods will be done.Ipostisa uthce today about
						K while ahon big lake
						probavly on for Tunike
					Penut.This afternoon I had a tooth filled and tonight lnots some and then went down to the dance.This is supposed to be the last night I lto
						Rvstalch. I hope it is.4 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 19220 all dayNenana cloudy.We had a big supper for all the alumni of the Mission about 28 were there and
						and after supper we danced
					until midnight square dance and waltz and one step. Miss Nister and I foxtrodded. We had a
					good time.I finishd up with my telk
					todayand one filling and cleaning were $1000.Judge Clegg left today cause is last tonight. They are going to buy the misive for R.R. funfools. Please God we shall build
					the right place.I wrote to Land Office about fennt today to find out Sercurl's lino.I hope Morey comes in in tee kept mail 2 am out entirely
					and much destreased.If it were possible I should go to Bealcha dance but it is not for lack of friends.I have God all will go well with
					Moses. I am much sore
					lerned.THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 1922 5-22 at 71 pm-Nenana clearI feel in better spirits tonight than I have felt for some time though the sad
					words come from the doctor that Daniel John Raggety Peters little brother cannot
					get well. I am sorry. I had prayers with himMoses is very kind and thoughtful. The courtesy and kindness of those children is
					nowhere surpassed. God bless their souls.I worked on my books this morning and this afternoon Moses studied and I worked
					on my report.I hope the mail brings me some mong soon.6 FRIDAY, JANUARY 6, 1922-4 at 1:00 a mNenana cloudy & windyThere was the last Sug. dance in
					the village tonight. I am glad the poltateto is over. Most of the people are leaving tomorrow.The rows of 7500 from Coghll today
					to go to Salctic to we on Sunday.This morning I maild a letter to the Bf and Dr B. about Moses. I hope to hear from the Bf forrowably and Dr B. soon.We had classes this afternoon and accomplished a good deal.This Evening thad service and
					there were a good way village people up.I pray Gods hlernigs on Moses and
					esp. on hon thar loved ones at
					home.SATURDAY, JANUARY 7, 1922 7- 6 all day - 12 at 1045Nenana Quite clear.I have tried to study a bit today and a few other things were accomplished. No
					mail is expected tomorrow.Moses studied this after noon and a bit tonight. I am very happy over his
					interest and desire to accomplish something. God bless him. He hopes to save
					$200 before July. I wind I then
					Paul that we would be by Monday night and corralled my engoy enicit at the Proneen ASTJ.8 SUNDAY, JANUARY 8, 192218 mile house above Fairbanks clearThis has been a full had days. I
					had service this morning and started off at 2:00 o'clock for Fairbanks on
					the train. Moses and I stayed in th frieght car with the dogs. I could not stand
					to have him stay there alone. We were 15 minutes late getting in and had to wait
					quite a long time for the sled. Mrs Clegg was there to
						nel to ofrius and he invited
					us town We had a good supper and
					reached here about one
					o'clock. Tired and about all sir.Mr McDonald fun
						has a little something to eat and we went to bed. It was cold so
						Moses and I doubled up.MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 1922 9-20Hellery's RH. Salchaket.
					clearThis is one of the happiest and teredest days than mer
						possed. We reached here about 3:00 o'clock and had a big
					dinner. Then went down to the Village It was a pleasant to see a good may people
					I knew many years ago. Chiy
						Tommie, Titus John and John Paul talked for a long time nearly
					three hours about village affairs. They begged for a missionary and showed a
					real interest in their own people and a real enthusiasm about watching after
						they. They wanted one to
					tell them how to live and what to do. My heart went out to those people who had
					caught a glimmering of the light and desired so muchWe had service about 7:30 and then Then Titus J then gave a very hearty talk of welcome to me which was
					inspiring. They begged us to stay longer and I wish we could have done so.After the service was over - and I talked on "I came not to destroy the Law but to Right". I gave out the Christmas
					presents then they gave a happy
					dance nd and we went to Hio Roadhouse and went to bed very
					tired and happy.Moses was impressed by their desire to live as they showed.10 TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1922warmerPioneer Hotel clear.We made the 18 mile house by 12:15 over a very heavy rough trail, and reached
					here at 6:30. The dogs were sick all morning from the fish they ate last night
					and did not travel very well wen
					with an empty sled so we could not ride very much and had to force them on. We
					rode all afternoon our or the
					men of us. By the time we got in I was oeppenig a good deal we the
						rhunatin.Mrs Clegg has M"ustn" Qmne down for buir on steab as we were late. We put the dogs up there I am sorry to
					say, but its all right.Fortunately we got a room here it was the last one they had. Byre we turned in we tosh a last tach and slept double so
					we wellh warm enough all
					night.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 1922 11+ 6 at 8:00Nenana clear.We were up early this morning and had breakfast. It took some time to get the
					dogs hetched and over to the
					train again they they were put in the express car and Moses watched them. My
					knee hurt so that I could hardly rest. Last night was indeed comfort-able and
					warm but my knee bothered me. The rlaedroad piars was 1268 for Zach q
					us and 6 00
					for dogs & sled. 60 cts each. The whole trip cost about $5500. It was indeed a hard one and Moses and I are both tired and
					worn.Moses slept this afternoon and I rested a bit. Several notices came in. Justin is going to work on his word
					tomorrow I thin Luke Jinw is also working. And Matthew is
					going to work. Luke bought 128 lbs. of caribou farn we today at 16t which he will take out - wood - $1900 about 5 cords of wood
					- I think we will be off about
					early tonight.A big mail is xpectd
					tomorrow.12 THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 1922Nenana cloudy & snowingThis morning Moses & I studied most of the morning and again to night. I am
					glad he is showing this interest. God bless him and fill him with Runer interest still.This after noon he went down to J
						Shenies cabin for two angers but J Shines was not there.Our bed on the cabin all after
					noon and accomplished a good deal.There was a rather large mail and a cheque for $114 from DrWood wish more money would come
					in a letter from Pearl & Rosa was a bit encouraging of Walts circumstances.FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1922 13+ 14 at 8:00Nenana clearThis has been another day of distress in some ways, but all is well for God is
					with me.This morning we slept late and I did a bit of work at my desk. This afternoon
					Moses studied and I worked on the back Room.Sick came up and I saw Signe
					apparently unmistakable which much displeased me. I am sorry, but God is with me
					and all is well.Mis h. & I worked a bit more
					on the back room tonight while the children all went to the picture show.I found this afternoon that wood
					was being cut on mission grounds. I shall speak to the nun as soon as I can see them.14 SATURDAY, JANUARY 14, 19220 at 8 no word for several daysNenana cloudyDick hauled 4 cords of wood today and Moses helped unload it. The more I see of
					Dick the less I like and trust him. His influence over Moses is very marked and
					distresses me some what.Miss Bedell came wired me from
						Rawport tonight asking if I
					could marry a couple The girl confined but underage. She wanted me to wire the
					Bp and he would come to Hot springs. The silly woman but there are lots of them.
					Judge Clegg refused to grant license so of course there is no legal marriage. I
					shall wire her to that effect tomorrow.This has been another blue day. God grant that all may be well.I hope next week will be a more happy and successful one.SUNDAY, JANUARY 15, 1922 15+0Nenana windyMost of the day I have been in my cabin with a miserable cold. I have been taking
					Eucotropins and feel better now.Service this morning and I talked on the Epistle for the day. Rightousness
					specially. This afternoon I studied some and had tea Dick Albert Luke Jaine
					Moses & Miss W. Sunday school this Evening.I pray Gods blessing on this day and night. May all be well.16 MONDAY, JANUARY 16, 19220 most all dayNenana cloudyAll has been well today. I have studied a good deal today.Last night I had a long and satis-factory talk with Moses. I must be patient with
					him and not expect too much. God bless our relationship and help him to
					accomplish his hope and desire. We how studied shows
					todayThis afternoon I received a letter from Dr Burke which made me
					very happy but in some ways disappointing. It brought back thoughts of those
					days spent at Fort Y. mbrighd
					with deep sorrow at the loss of our Dear Archdeacon. God help me to carry on his
					work.TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 1922 170 all day & +4Nenana cloudyThis has been a most remarkable winter. 35° the lowest registered any where
					in this section. The constant wind probably accounts for it.I am very happy over the way Moses is accepting his studies. And I hope he will
					get down to them more then e.
					God bless and help him.Home folk have been such such on my mind these past few days. May it please God
					to grant Walter His help and
					blessings.I have studied and written a bit today and worked on my books.18 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 1922+ 2 at 10:00Nenana cloudyI got off a letter to Hiraus and
					Arthur and Thune today. Please
					God Hesaind parish will do
					something financially.Not much study for myself and none too much for Moses. It distresd me that he
					shows so little genuine interest. He is at least cheerful today.Tonight I do not feel very well so I am on to bed early. That is earlier than
					usual.Miss Nixon took my glossed down today & had a spring
					changed but it will not work I shall have to try to have the broken one fixed.
					They are a considerable expense.THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 1922 19+24 at 10:00Nenana cloudy & rainThis morning I wrote letters and this afternoon after some study with Moses I
					worked in the back room It will soon be done and I hope to be in the nxt mrkMoses has une over during his
					spare moments today and I am glad. He shows more interest than R God, for I have hopes for him.MrHagan wa up stay and wants Moses & the team
					for a write I can not spare him
					for more than a few hours. His studies are the most important of all.I have been thinking much of those at home and much of the Dear Archdeacon God
					bless his soul in Paradise.20 FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 192230 al most all dayNenana cloudy & rainThis morning I wrote some and hopes Moses fix the girls toilet. This afternoon I worked on the
					back room and with Joe & Miss Nixon help and Moses tonight we finished it save for strips and a
					few little odds & ends.Much to my surpirse Miss Bedell arrived with a train of 14 lods and three natives to get Rosilee married to Alfred. I had been
					wondering if she sensibly turned back to Stephens Village but no more trouble. I
					have us idea Judge Clegg will
					consent to it. Of corse I shall do nothing but abide by the law.Tomorrow I shall see Hagn &
					phone Judge Clegg.SATURDAY, JANUARY 21, 1922 2129 mearly all dayNenana cloudyThis morning I went down to Mr Hogan with Miss Bedell. He telephoned to Gup Irwin and tuck to usage us to say that Rosilee was 16 that that was the only
					chance. We then went over to the Commssioner who would have given heiress had I been willing to marry them but I would not
					with out Judge Cleggs consent. The com. phoned him and it annoyed him very much.
					I am sorry. Of course it would do no good he could wote range his need. I hear she turned loose with
					several people in store. I tried
					to get her out but woman like even like her Poyrer She "had her stay out" I reproved her after words, but little
					good it did I am ever.There is nothing to do but let stin go back in nerrir. I will not marry them aganst the law.The back room s. nearly
					finished.22 SUNDAY, JANUARY 22, 1922+ 20 at 10:00Nenana cloudyAll morning I felt miserable and could not think what I should preach about, but
					finally decided to preach on "Be not overcome by Evil, but overcome evil
					with good. The whole thing applied to the misfortunate couple but the workers
						seemd to feel that it
					applied to them also. I meant it to of course.Much to my astonishment Miss Hyde a potential enemy of Judge Clegg's came up and tried to urge me
					to force Judge Clegg to give his consent. It was a nasty in-trusion I wish I had
					treated it with more severity.I was much surprised and worried when I withced a small flushed spot on Moses cheek this morning. Please
					God he has no touch of tuberculosis. He has a terrible cough cold but no cough I shall make an effort to han him xrnnirls Lope.I wrote the Bp is detail of Miss Bedell & the whole affair todayMONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1922 23+18 at 8:00Nenana cloudyThis is the last day of work on the back room. Joe kindly came over and we
					finished up and moved in tonight Tomorrow we will clean up in here and be all
						fixed. It looks fine and we will be very comfortable
					I know. Moses seems to be happy over it too.I told Alfred Joseph $ weight
					that I could not marry them. He seemed sad but I think will be forthful.Yesterday I wrote the Bp. in detail about the affair fathon decides wefte said the letter yet a while.We studied two koun this
					afternoon. I pray baish leosings
					on the work here24 TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1922+14 all dayNenana clearMiss Bedell left this morning to return by way of Dunbars and Brooks which is 60
					miles from Stephens Village. The two teams of 7 dogs each was very picturesque
					as they drove off down the trail.I did a bit of writing today and straightened up the cabin. Miss W. came over and
					rested a while this afternoon & fixed the curtains.Moses has not gotten in the times we should have had.This evening I cut his hair and did a pretty good job.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1922 25+ 14 all dayNenana cloudyNothing eventful today save that Moses and I took a bath.A bit of study and the usual course of duty un. I wrote to Mr Drane and acknowledged
						min Dr Wall's cheque of
					200.26 THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 1922+ 10° - 28 at 10:15Nenana clearThe clear sky brought cold and I am feeling it.Early this morning I went down town and attended first of business. This afternoon we had class and after
						three took Mos me for a dog ride. It was very
					pleasant. This evening I cut Joe&s hair and Moses came over late for class.
					I am sorry for it means that I lose that much time and his interest
					decreases.God's blessings be on him and may He grant that Moses go out this summer. God's blessings be on
					those whom MosFRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 1922 27-36 at 10:30 The coldest it has been thus farNenana clear & beautifulThis morning I accomplished little and this afternoon and evening perhaps less.
						Soones days seem to slip
					by.Moses class today, however, was more successful. He wrote a good paragraph on
					sawing wood. Just now he is paying more attention to his penmanship. My hopes
					for Moses grow. God bless him.I went to Mildred this afternoon
					evening and described the cabin in detail God bless her family too.I had the first service here in the cabin this evening. It was a bit too crowded
					and I am afraid will words than them often I look forward
					to the communion service I hope to have in hers lotes.28 SATURDAY, JANUARY 28, 19220 most of the dayNenana High windMost of the day I worked on my book and I find I am in need of a goodly due of money. Please God it will soon
					be forthcoming.This afternoon Moses & Joe went out to set traps. I was sorry to see it for
					Joe's influence over Moses is demoralizing I felt it all afternoon and
					especially tonight when I saw a good deal of difference in Moses. Please God all
					will be well.This evening I have tried to prepare tomorrows sermon without much success. I
					wish I could do more work on my sermons.I have never seen such a strong windstorm here before.SUNDAY, JANUARY 29, 1922 290 stans all dayNenana clearAll day I have felt miserable because of the happenings of this past week. Please God Isha all shall be work through the future. I shall try
					to write a good many letters this week and do some studying too.Moses read a couple of chapters in Ivanhoe tonight and studer afen wrote this afternoon. He
					has a splendid memory and I know can make good if he wants to.God be with those at home.30 MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 1922+18 at 5:30Nenana clear & windyI did more studying and some writing today. This morning I went down town and got
					the returned Kodak pictures 
					from Th'k's. They were
					only fair but there is a good one to include in Mrs Fry's letter.I have been somewhat disturbed to-day of over affair but
					pray God all will go well.TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 1922 31+18 at 9:50 still nowNenana clear, wind all dayThis morning I sent Mrs
						Fry's letter asking for $500.00 from the Diocese of Louisiana
					for Moses to go through Mt
						Herman. Please God it will be possible for them to give it. I feel assured they will be
						interested.Moses
					worked here in the house on the water sled this morning and finished it. This afternoon we
					studied and he took the dogs for a run.I had quite a long talk with him last night but to little effect when it please
					God to give His Blessings to my efforts.This evening we developed a roll of film and I think quite successfully.We finished Ivanhoe today and Moses seems to have gotten quite a good deal out of
					it, and I am glad. I am pleased with his progress in his studies.32 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1922+2 at 10:00Nenana clearI ran off a few letters today ordered some Kodak supplies from Dad and had class
					with Moses this afternoon M read
					some of Oliver Goldsmith and started the Merchant of Venice.Much to my distress I found that Moses uses snuff and when we fixed up the
					developer he added some water to the solution to raise the temperature. When he
					found it was an error he let out a long line of othes under breath. I am sorry.
					I have not said very much. Please God he will give me his confidence Whatever
					His will is I shall do my best to help the boy.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1922 33+20 at 10:00Nenana clear windyThis morning I did a bit of writing until 1030 or nearly eleven when Mose came up
					from the river and helped Dick OHerne unload the wood. Several things happened which brought on
					me the saddest hour of my life thus far. Never have I felt anything so Renly. The iron entered deep into my
					soul. I feel it still but will make the best of what God sends me to suffer for
					His children here. I am glad to suffer it and pray earnestly for Him to give me
					wisdom and grace to do His will.There was a good mail from the "Beetnle" tonight a letter from Mildred and Rosa. I
					wrote Rosa about my ordination. The Bp's letter was an answer of mine from
					Tanana, and he advises me not to marry the divorced couple I am glad to follow
					his advice.God bless those at home and especially Math and his family. And grant that Moses may go to Hermon ny & summer.34 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1922+20 all dayNenana cloudyAgain we had service in the cabin and it was very nice to have it so. This has
					been a busy day I visited the wood piles and found that Justin had cut 6 cords.
					Dick hauled again today.Moses cut ice. I shall help him on Monday. I worked a while on my books this
					evening and hope to have them completed my checks and report out very soon.
					There is a lot of work to it.The Bp's letter yesterday commended me on my work at Tanana and brought a
					$250 cheque for which I am most thankful. A letter from Mrs. Blacknall brought $5 so that now I have enough to pay
					up my numerous bills. Thanks to
					God.This has been an anxious but happy day.SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1922 35+ 10 all dayNenana cloudy windyThis morning and after noon I worked on my books and accomplished a bit. The day
					has not been an exciting one but life is pressing hard on me these days may God
					be pleased to grant me a deeper realization of it and a fuller share in the
					sufferings and trials of others.When one is touched with anothers sorrows, trials and temptations where one knows
					anothers weeknesses and distresses he is able to drawn nearer to Him who
					suffered more than us all and lend a little aid to the suffering.Life is indeed a mystery, a tragedy and a dream. The deeper I go the more
					mysterious I find it, the more tragic and the more like a dream.God forgive my sins and lead me on to higher things for himself. May He who hung
					on Calverys Tree, make me more like Himself. May He help me to sacrifice my
					passions and ill desires, my haughty pride and all that is displeasing to
					Himself. Through Jesus Christ may I be Blessed36 SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1922-10 all dayNenana cloudy & windyThis morning I had anti communion service and after service we all went down to
					see the first through tran with
						is large size engine. It was
					miserable and cold down there. Moses went down later with 7 dogs to get in the
					race, but they had no race. The thing was poorly arranged.The afternoon was miserably spentThis evening we had Sunday school and an hour and a half about of study. I do not
					know what is going to happen about there studies I am worried about them for
					Moses intuld down wishes in some
					ways but in-cuases in others.
					Poor boy he looks not like me but rather holds across tempt. He is fond of Dick
					He ame and Dick for a very
					strong influence over him. I am sure he cannot accomplish his purpose if he
					con-tinues under his influences. It distresses me for I love this boy and am
					anxious for him to forge ahead.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1922 37-30 at 8:30Nenana clear & shiteThis morning I wrote to the Bp. and sent the letter about Miss Bedell - Thanked
					him for the $250 00 and told him about Miss Bridgemore. I also mentioned my
					letter about Moses & my application Hankr 4 - pressing the hope that I should be ordained in
					March.Lion to Mr Laures and Mrs
					Sarah Wilson at Tanana groing
						her the laws. And
					on marying a divorced person The situation with Moses grows more and more
					serious. I pray God to help me in solving it. I am eager for the boy to go to
					Hermon and pray God it may please him to grant that he may lates all well and increase in desire
					to go.38 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1922-12 at 10:00Nenana clear & windyLast night I had a long talk with Moses before we retired. As usual I did most of
					the talking but it cleared matters up to a certain degree. Things have to-day
						bene most pleasant. He is
					far from having the right attitude and is far from pre-pared to Euter Hermon- Is, in her far prepared
						from for going outside; but I
					know God is with us and all will be well. I have hope or and pray God's blessings.We finished Macbeth last night and he got a good deal out of it Tonight we
					started Julius Caesar. If every day were like this one my hopes could not be
					higher or my heart happier.This morning we placed candles and had prayers by Mayor bed. She pansed into Paradise this morning at 12:05 am. Mary Oulette,
						age 7 home at Salcha
						hot daynt of John and
					Laura.I mailed Bps. letter today about him Beku The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.Moses. trip to Crossing and ordinationThe preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1922 39-33 at 10:10Nenana clear & beautifulThis morning I tried to write and do several things but accomplished little. This
					after noon we had class and went down town for some books from the Union Hall
					Library fo Moses. I got The Tale
					of Two Cities and Silas Marner.All day I have anticipated going to Tanana but learned by phone tonight that
						Nanes FoTchett wedding is
						fh on the 22 Feb so I cannot
					go. I am sorry. I hope to hear from the Bp. in regard to my ordination by that
						trineso I shall know what I
					shall do before then.Moses was late tonight. He has a splendid mind if only he would work. God be with
					him.40 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1922-8 at 10:00 very windyNenana very clearI had quite a time getting the boys in The Village started in the grove to be dug by the side of Paul
					Laurence Williams on the knoll by Miss Farthing but pen of tun started finally.Moses and Liraedaord after lunch
					and then after the coffin. Moses
					spent some time down town, much they docteers, before dinner. This afternoon we brought up studied some and this
						endng started late as usual.
					I have dreadful anxious fear about him and Morses and mok ful be come bt make Hermon nebs he changes his attitude, and
					sets himself won to it. God
					bless him.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1922 41-3 at 9:30Nenana cloudyThis morning at 4:00 a m I was arroused to go to Mr Frank L
					Jones bed side as he was diing.
					I went down with Moses who would not let me go alone and had prayers with him.
					He said he was baptized. Dr Kirby - a Roman Catholic - sent
					for me at 9:10 a.m. after two early hours there I went again and stayed two hours there. He died at
					9:30. I wish I had been able to administer it trene unction and give him a blessing. I had connenditng prayers as his soul left
					the body. all that happened afterwords was ghastly and horrible so that I could not stomach
					my dinner.This afternoon we buried Little Mary Oulette. Unfortunatly the grave was too
					small and had to be dug more there. I am sorry.I talked a good deal with Dr Kirby and got his point of view & He is not such
					a bad fellow yasde as they
						S & ny here. God bless
					him and keep him. I am sorry for him.This has been one of the happiest days I have passed both Nyres. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.last night I had a talk with Lam
					until 12:15. He said little but shows a different attitude and spirit word rise and his work. God bless him.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.42 SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1922+5 at 10:00Nenana cloudy, snowingAnother day worried through good little accomplished. ItMwae promised me when Moses goes on with Tre for Tres' influence is very
					strong and bad. It is demoralizing, and very noticeable when they are together
					This afternoon I went up to see Mr Tuffle He gave me two hyacinthes in but and they are very lovely.Moses came over quite late for class It keeps me on edge all this time God grant
					His blessings.Our work from tomorrow then to go
					to Fairbanks and I dread it, but there is no help for it. Please God I shall be
					able to get back on Thursday.I feel that I am really doing Moses very little good if any at all, and I am
					sorry. I wish I could help him. I wish it might be my privilege to have his
					confidence. I am fond of the boy and am very eager to help him.God bless those at home tonight. I am thinking of them. They are constantly on my
					heart and mind.SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1922 43-10 AT 10:00 moonNenana clean & brastpheThis morning I had service and preached on the Epistle. I wish we had an
						in-tarepestn I would Me that
					I were accomp-lishing more. I dread to go to Fbk's next Sunday but must
					go.A big mail came int his afternoon but most unsatisfactory one. Have not read
						knine yet.Moses went down for it and said he wanted %50.00 from his money I am keeping for
					him. a man he knew well wanted it. I suppose it was Dick I suppose I shall
						here how his con-prtence. I wish God migt grant it me for I feel that I
					might be of some help to him if I had. God be with him and guide him aright. He said tu man was to return it in tus anl-thope he does for I want him
					to save it to go "outside" on.God be with those at home.44 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1922+2 at 10:00Nenana cloudy.This morning I read my mail and studied a bit. This afternoon after class with
					Moses I had several callers and attended to some business I sent a wire to Mr Horton and ordered 5 cases of gasoline, and some things for
					the house. Slope Thoy on here
					shortly.This evening I cut Moses hair and we had class afterwards. I am much distressed
					over Moses, but hope all comes out well. He played a little trick on me tonight
					which I did not like for the principle that was behind it, but perhaps I should
					not remonstrate with him too much. I am most happy over the fact that Walter has
					a farm and hope all goes well with him.My prayers are constantly for him and those at home and for Moses and his success
					and happiness in life.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1922 45+4 at 10:30Nenana cloudyThis morning I worked about the place with Mose cleaning toilets it is a
					miserable job but must be done I hate to see any one man do it though Moses
					insisted Last night I had a long talk with Mose and his attitude today has not
					been right. I shall give him the best I can but all I can without his confidence
					there is much I cannot give him that I should like to, but it is not his
					pleasure and not my privilege. I feel it would not be wise to say more. I pray
					God's blessings on him, and hope he will have a happy and successful life.
					There are many dreadful articles
					than about his going out, but I know God has led me to do what I can for him and
					I want him to have a chance. He realizes I think that this is his only
					opportunity but he is quite Indian and a fine life is a strong temptation to
					him. I can only do my best and leave the rest to God. God bless him and keep him
					and those dear loved over at home.46 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1922+9 at 10:00Nenana cloudyThis morning I did but little toward the betterment of my country. I have just
					composed another tune to "Rejoice Ye Pure in Heart" and a Communion
					Hymm. I dont know whether they are any good or not.Mr Crantz came in this evening and asked me to marry him &
					Miss Fletcher. I dread going up
					on Sunday and hope to return on Thursday. There may be a train and probably
					shall on tane having a hard time
					these days but Phone God all
					will be well.M had class tonight and read. I with Moses cond enough to give more time to it. There is so much to be
					done.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1922 47+10 AT 12:15Nenana cloudyThis morning I pressed up my clothes in part and this afternoon slept after class
					with Moses. Last night I had a talk with Moses to which he responded more than
					ever before. His response led hope, but in nature lust finality to any the posibility of any hope of further opportunity to render real
					service to him. I feel it because I am as eager to help him. He has remarkable
					possibilities if they are directed in the right way. There are many things I
					want to help him with that I am not at all able to touch on under the present
					conditions and the time grows I
						hurt if he is to go out this summer. Surely it will not always be
					there and I pray Gods blessings.48 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1922+14 at 11:00Nenana cloudy & lireThis morning I pressed up to go to Fbk's eathe should say I funrbed pressing up.A were came from Mr Taylor this afternoon saying that Mrs Clegg had
					read a win that Mr Hughes was on the train to be in
					Fb'k's Sunday I
						pleaued Miss Fatchet and gave her to opportunity of having him performe but
					she flatly refused and insisted on my doing it I am glad. No word from MrHug o himself and I am
					surprised.Moses went off to the picture show to nignt
						nuch buy decof pout went I do not quite un-derstand the boy and
					wish I could get nearer to him. I feel I could do him some real good, but I am
					far from kind. I will do the best I can and leave the rest to God. God grant
					that I may not fail to do my best with him I wish that his interest might
					increase instead of decrease as it seems to do. See page 366.SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1922 49+10 all dayNenana cloudyMoses studied most of the afternoon and I am glad. These are all pull days and I am glad when I can
					get in a few hours study for myself.See page 71.am sorry for it means that he is not preparing himself watch in the nearn thing for him to go out to Hermon. No willingness
					to study tonight distresses me very much. Unless he is willing to sacrifice some
					things for Vernon. Vernon will
					not warn much to him I have
					decided thres of let him alone
					for a while G The only thing to
					do under the circum-stances. Please God something will bring him around. I wish
					God might be pleased to use me as an instrument in his cause.a line came from the Ms. to-night
					which said that he would ordain me 5 April at Nenana and I am glad.Moses seems to take the attitude of a servant instead of a compain The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.and that makes me feel pretty badly. I am willing and glad to glad to sacrifice
					all for God & I hope God neay use me as what ever way pleases Him.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.50 SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1922+2 at 8:00Fairbanks cloudyThis morn ing I packed up and got ready to come up here. Had a short service and
					went horon to meet Mr Hughes.
					The train was late and there was not time for him to come up to the mission
						Miss W, and newt down and
					Moses returned with the dogs. There was something very peculiar in his manner. I
					cannot understand him. I hope he studies while I am away and that Dick does not
					get too strong a hold on him. It seems to be growing stronger.Mr H. says that the Bp. expected to come in the first of March and go to the
						honling. I do not know
						just hat he is going to do
						last hope he does. I hope
					nothing will change him.I like Mr Hughes and am happy to have asked him to present me. When I tho him comes. I do not so much
					fear my exams.He knocked a arygod/Sinns at the
						preety binner elwuck to wef
						me had dinner at the Cleggs. This The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.neture at the station. I had the
						Faing prayer & read the
						Jesnon.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1922 51FairbanksIt has been comfortably warm today while the sun was up but much colder after it
					went down.This morning I did a good many errands and arranged for a Communion Service at
						Mrs Guy's Residence.
						Mr Davis a very selfimportant man who calls himself a
						vertry him flatly refused to
						have allow the Communion Service
					in the church. I am sorry. It shows that he has lost sight of the spiritual
					value of the services of the church. He is typical of many layman I am sorry to
					say. I was disappointed too when Miss Fitched said she did not want to receive before she was
					married.Betty Bilun took down several
					letters for me tonight this afternoon
					and will take down more tomorrow I wish I could be there all day tomorrow but
					cannot of course with the wedding to practice and the service in the morning
					Then too I want to carry Mr Hughes momd to call a while in the afternoon
					should not be able to go down Thursday I will have further opportunity. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.I made the second confanions I
					have ever made to Fabtes Hughes
					to-night and it was a help and salufactor I feel
						than I am spent vally
						hackedThe preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.52 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1922-12 at 8:00 p.m.FairbanksThis morning at 10:00 am we had a celebration of the Holy Eucharist at MrsGuyes residence. I was surprised
					to have that she was not a church woman but a Jewess. There were six then an
					offering of about four dollars was taken. It was a most helpful service I
					assisted in it though I did not have my surplies then. Mr Taylor from the Fairbanks Laundry came over.
					After service I dictated some letters. All together I have 2 b dictated. Moses is much on my heart
					and mind and I have written much about him to try to get people interested. I
					hope his studies are going well while I am away. May God bless and keep him
					always in His tender care and watchful providence.This afternoon I took Mr Hughes to call on several people Mr Bram, Dunham, Banach, McGowan and Mr Dean. at 4 I preached the wedding service
					with the future bride & Groom and Miss Emery had dinner at the Chg, & tonight Betty took more letters on me. God bless those
					at home.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1922 53Fairbanks snowing hardMr Hughes was & on this
					morning at 8:00. I saw him off. It has been very pleasant to have him h ere and
					helpful too. All morning I dictated letters and finished 35 all together. This
					afternoon the wedding came sn
					with great success rush appneas.
					I made out the certificate and handed one in to Shcurse to Mr Boyd the Comnoisros at the dance tonight.The dinner lasted until 8:00 p.m. I was much honored to be seated on the right
					hand of the Bride. She was very beautiful. My cayes almost dropped out of my head when I opened the
					envelope and found a $100 bill as a fee. Mr Crites was most
					gen-erously kind.After this dinner I went to another at Evelyn Honks. She is a very sweet girl but far from our style.
					We then went to the Masonic hall which was most delightful.This morning opli said Miss W.
					and heard that all was well.54 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1922Nenana cloudy & windyThis morning I left Fbk's about 7:50 and reached here at 11:30 Moses had over down to meet me but tonight I
					had not come. My suitcase was rather heavy to carry as far.Mr Hughes is here and it is a pleasure to have him. He is in
					the cabin and I am sleeping in the hospitalIt was a real disappointment to find that Moses is more detatory disinterested about his studies than ever. My
					heart goes down and down. Word came down from Hermon to-day which was most
					favourable & may God zrasnestly that He will grant that Moses may succeed in life.
					Word also came from the Bp. giving his concent to Moses going
					"outside." I hope it will not be long before I shall hear that La.
					will pay his expenses. God want that they may. The Bp. plan for plan for me to
					go to Gulesna and hear the team
					then go on to Cordova for my or-dination. we will then return together and go
					over to the Crossing. I anticipate this with a great deal of pleasure. Ours hope it works out well. wired the Bp.Have good team ready to leave, elned notopy
						poph servicing to gather what appointment date. What hold banr.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1922 55Nenana clear windyIt was very disappointing tonight when Moses claimed his night off to go to the
					picture show when he had come over this week and too I have bone away and he has done less. With
					many things come to my mindi
					concerning him I am much worried and I am sorry to say skeptical about this
					going to Hermon. But I am sure he considers my interest a promise which makes
					the situation even more difficult. I am certainly worried. God grant that all
					may be well.Mr Hughes gave a fairly good talk to the children on Lent tonight. I have
					ac-complished little all day for I have felt so miserably and did not get up
					until noon.56 SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1922NenanaMoses and I had classes this afternoon and evening. I had a mass satisfactory talk with him as he
					responded some what. I think he himself was of a mind to give up his chance of
					Hermon but asserted his desire again and I am glad for I am indeed most eager
					for him to go and take his chance in life. God bless and keep him.I made out my report today and am glad to have it ready to send in.No word from the Bp today much to my disappointment. I hope to hear ery soons.SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1922 570 - 10:00NenanaMr Hughes left today and I am glad to have had him here though I am not deeply
					impressed with him.Mr & MrsCrites came through on the noon train and I met them. I assisted
					in the cestg celebration at 10: this
					morning It was a pleasure. Please God it will not be long until I shall be
					privi-leged to celebrate nupely.
					Moses has shown a real genuine interest today which lends encouragement Thanks
					to God for this blessing.58 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1922-2 at 8:00Nenana clearThis morning I went down town to find out about the trail to Cordova I find they
					are in fair condition the railroad fair from Chitina to Cordova is $1680. It was $2000 ten years ago. No word
					from the Bp today I am sorry to say. Some preparations were made for the
					tripMoses has studied more today than usual. The time is short.This afternoon I went down to MrsAlfred to prepare her for Baptism and confirmation I am
					glad she his anxious to come into the church and hope she will be ready when the
					Bp comesI hope next Sunday will bring some money in the mail.I pray Gods blessings on those at home I think of them constantly.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1922 59+7Nenana cloudy & windyI went down to MrsAlfred this evening for another class and
					this afternoon and evening had class with Moses.No word from the Bp much to my disappointment.Moses has started to comb his hair back in a pompadour and it looks well. He is
					freer than before and talk more I do not know how long it will last or how long
					he will continue to come over at 7:00 in the evening. He says he does not like
					to be in the house. Hermon will make some hard demands if he does not accomton himself now. God be with
					him. He has much to learn.60 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 1922Nenana cloudyThis morning I had services and preached. This evening after class I slept until
					Moses came in to go to town. I have felt most miserable since he sold his
						skins at $1000 each. I wish he would apply it on his money to go outside but he
					seems to have no conncenssionn
					about it. I am down hearted and discouraged tonight I am truly sorry to say.
					Dreadful agonizing fear come upon me and I am sorry.No word from the Bp today makes things look doubtful I am sorry.THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 1922 61-18 at 13:00Nenana clear windyMoses and I have talked for three hours about what he is to do after he has
					finished Hermon Please God he will decide to study for the ministry but I fear
						hee he is persuaded to try
					to learn come trade. I hope not.
					Dick O'Hearne's influence leads him that way and Dick is a strong
					influence. God grant him His guidance and help.All day I expected word from the Bp but did not receive it perhaps something will
					come tomorrow.62 FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1922+18Nenana cloudy snowingThis morning I tried to write and this afternoon nod a fit I sent to Bp another wire"Awaiting reply to previous wire growing anxious about trails"Please God I shall hear from it
					soon. So we can get started on Sunday.I had service tonight and talked about the church and it organized.SATURDAY, MARCH 4, 1922 63-30 at 10:20Nenana clearThis has been a somewhat lazy day I am sorry to say for I wanted to accomplish a
					good deal. A wire came from Mr Horton"Bp busy East not possible
					to reach him few days forwarding cable" AH HortonI do not know just what to count to
						save I shall wait a day or so for a wire from the Bp then if I do
					not hear take a trip into the Kantishna to visit the natives. I hope however
						hear and can go to Cordova
					and the crossing.Moses went out to gather in his traps this afternoon. Had class tonight64 SUNDAY, MARCH 5, 1922-10 10:Nenana cloudyLast night I had the last talk I shall have with Moses I reckon and I am sorry. I
					cannot reach his heart on the mener
						mass and it deprives me of giving him any real help which he needs
					so much. God grant me grace to help him the best I can.This morning I talked on the church at morning prayer.This afternoon we studied the Last Supper and Moses took Mis W. and Delia for a ride.After supper we practiced some plain song music for the commion service whenever I am privileged to have it God grant it
					may not be too long. I look forward to it with glad anticipation.6 MONDAY, MARCH 6, 1922 65-18 at 9:45Nenana clearMy 34 letters came down from Fbks today and I shall be glad to get them off. I
					wish I had several hundred done.No word from the Bp today I am sorry to say but I hope to hear soon. Classes with
					Moses and I have planned out more of his work. God give him grace and help in
					deciding what he will do in life. I have great hope for the boy.66 TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 1922Nenana clearAfter a chiuop this morning with
					Dick and Moses M M. & and I had a
					long talk then this afternoon we took MrsWright up to Tom shareds camp to see if he would cut wood for me but he
					will not The wood situation is a distressing one this year, but I shall try to
					make it different next year I left t
						gow I bought a dog 'Moose', from Tom for $3000 I think he is a good one. It did not take him long to work
					himself in. Bowy is a nice
					looking dog but will not do a lick of work.We got back by 11:00 oclock tired hungry and cold.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8, 1922 67Nenana clearThis morning we prepared to start off to the Kantishna bat at the last moment I changed my
					mind to Moses disappointment, I am sorry to say for he anticipated a hunt, and I am decided to bon tomorrow for the Crossing. I
					wired the Bp."No word up to date. Leave for Crossing Thursday 9th
					March. Please If you desire me to
					meet you Cordova please wire me Mr
						Carty. Leavin there Tuesday 14th"Please God I shall leave before that twice and know what I am to do- about my
					ordination. Another talk with Moses. This after noon revealed more than ever
					before and leaves me somewhat down in spirit. I with released him of the promise he made yesterdayGod bless him and help him I am privileged to do better for him I am sorry to
					say68 THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1922Pioneer Hotel not dery coedFairbanks clearWell we are off today for I dont know where. Is Cordova for my ordination please
					God. I showed Miss W. tonight and found that there was no word from the Bp. No
					mail or wire from him. I am sorry for I hoped to hear. Perhaps I shall receive a
					wire before I reach Richardson or McCarty.The tracer came in late and we
					had several things to do before we turned in. I have just had a hot bath and
					Moses is taking one now We expect a good sleep tonight.Please God all will go well with us on the trip. I sort of felt when I left
					Nenana today that I was leaving for good. God grant that Moses may return and
					make a success in life if I don't. There are many things on my heart and
					mind as Moses nature reveals itself. The following text is written sideways on the right side
					of the page.Miss W said there was %50.00 in the mail from Mr Garrview in Fla. who heard me
						spror. It was in N.O. as I recovere.The preceding text is written sideways on the right side
					of the page.FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1922 69+6-18 Mile House cloudy, snotWe got away about nine this morning and reached here about one o'clock.Much to my distress "Boots"is lame and I fear will be of no use on this
					trip. Thats mostly all to work him in that condition or even make him follow
					along.I wired Miss W. and read word that no message had come either to Nenana or
						Mclant from the Bp. I am
					sorry and much worried I am afraid he is ill; and I feel that my trip is a
						pointhos one as well as
					almost hopless as for so seeing any
					natives is concerned.We had a long rest here and class tonight. Moses is ashamed bnicite in itupresence of anyone and I am sorry.
						I totshin so L fatad and
					soon is. God bless and help him.70 SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 1922SalchaketHeeleris RoadHouseNenana cloudy & snowingWe reached here about one o'clock today and I spent an hour or so in the
						Vellage This evening I had
					service. There are certainly responsive people. I wish I could spend several
					weeks here instead of a few hours.Two of the dogs got loose and killed a couple of chickens. I am sorry. I have
					offered to pay him for them but he will not take it.There was no word from the Bp. today as I have given up hopes of hearing from
					him. I shall just try to see some of the Cross-ing people and come back.We will have to make a quick trip on account of the tracts.God grant us his blessings.All has gone on very well with Moses. I wish he would to study more. He needs it but does not fully realize
					it.Titus John is nowhere and I am
					glad for it would have caused me much anxiety.see page 49SUNDAY, MARCH 12, 1922 71Taylors RH.10 mi above Salchaket cloudy & snowingWe did not leave Hillers place until three oclock this afternoon and reached here
					a little after five. Mr Taylor is very much grieved over little Mary Oullette's death and I find her
					death and his wife's very much on his mind.This morning I had service for the natives and not all were there to my
					disappoint-ment. I talked about the spro the and chiefly
					about the 7 commndment as it delt somewhat with that.I had rhumatism so badly I was afraid we could not go very far and because it was
					Sunday I was very anxious not to travel. The fact that every day counts made me
					want to push on inspite of it. I am glad we waited and I am glad we 111came up
					here for the night.Moses spent most of his time to day talking with that old man that stays at the
					R.H. It disappointed and grieved me very much for I had hoped we could get in
					several hours of study. He said he would not give up his companionship it with the old timer and he is
						rest doing it. I72 MONDAY, MARCH 13, 192210 mi above RichardsonShais Creek clear &
					beautifulThis has been a very hard day and
					we are tired The dogs are tired too. We would have gone on had we not found a
					stove in this small cabin, I concented to as Moses war, but it would have been hard on us and the dogs. We are very
					comfortable. The stew pot was not emptied at supper but our tummies were full
					and satisfied.We left Tay Cors at 2:00 this
					a.m. and reached here about 5:00 p.m. Moses of of the wood and pared for the dogs while I got water and cooked supper. 1/2 or
					3/4 team of study and we are ready for bed r not.A sad strange thing happened at
					Richardson today but I reckon at
					there is no need for worry. I prayed Gods blessings on Moses. Yu W Miss W. wired me that she
						max reed letter from Bp. He
						nust the Bp. Rinelanden plan
					during March and hoped to be at Nenana in april to ordan me. Please God it will
					be before Easter.TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 1922 7312 mi. above McCartyClear Water cloudy, snowingThis has been a hard day on the trail. W reached McCarty for lunch and got in
					here about 6:30.Another little thing happened at McCarty which I hardly aute ecpated, save from Moses general
					attitude, and it disappointed me. I have come to certain conclusions which I
					cannot avoid, but they hurt me very much. I hope all will go well.We are getting to bed late tonight and I am very tired and sleepy. I could not
					eat any supper I seem to ach all over. It feels a bit like pneumonia.This is a very comfortable R.H. dirty indeed, but warm, even hot.I cannot help but dred tomorrow night at Newtons.added later- Mr Butcihes died
					tonight. Cor Cob and I am deeply
					grieved. 24th March.74 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 19221 mi above NewtonsChief Joe's Cabin clear, cold.The thermometer has gone down to -30 for the past two nights. We got away from
					Clear Water at 7:15 this a.m. and had a very hard day. I was much distressed
					over another of Moses exibitions but things have cleared up somewhat today. God
					grant His Blessings on over re-lationship. I love the boy and want him to
					prosper. I wish I knew cer-tain things about him but pro-bably shall never know
					unless it please God to grant that I may.We prased Newtons today and recd.
					a very cold reception by Mr N. I asked to see Mrs N. but he refused. He would not take us in with our dogs. and I am
					glad. I should rather be here with Joe where I am wel-come with Moses. Joe
					cooked us a good supper.I met MrDuklevitch. He alman ad use of old trine.There are a few natives here: Sam and his family. We shall have to make a quick trip for lack
					of The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.dog foodThe preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1922 75Chief Joe's cabinWe stayed over here today and had a service for the some 10 people here. ---------------------addl 24th MarchThis is the day the Dear Archdeacon started on the mountain trip. I have been
					thinking of it a great deal. Nothing has been more in my mind than MrBeth ha on this trip I am indeed
					grieved that he is gone. He bonbcters
						woasked him. Sey
					to death. I am sorry for MrsBelliches and aw.76 FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1922Chief Joes cabin above Georgie Creek6 mi.at the mouth of G. creek we met Sid Albert Siute
					Albert and Peter Albert. Thy say
					there is no one at the crossing. in
						shougd to Sam creek and probably Robert-son Creek and it meay be above Paul's cabin to
					see what people we can find.No study though plenty of time it distresses me. I am trying to get Moses away
					from his very haughty pride but I see and have practically no chance to help
					him. My heart aches for the boy I wish I could win his love and confidence
					instead of incuce his hatred and
					disrespectI am tired tonight and suffer-ing with rhumatism in my hipps.SATURDAY, MARCH 18, 1922 77Chief Joes CabinAll day we traveled on Geo. Lake in search of the trail to Moose Head Lake but
					could not find it. We went the full length of the trail and all the way around
					one side and across and up half of the other side. Late Dr saw a Ry othe before we reached the lower
					and agan and Moses shot it. He
						fuo d though it was a dog
					and then a fox.We came here epand and found two
					acceptable in this small cabin. Moses skinnd thank yo ten.78 SUNDAY, MARCH 19, 1922Sausu CreekBig Alberts Camp.I am disappointed that that we seeu
						udgs up to Robinson creek for thier or fin buts there, but we are short of dog food and I feel assured.
					with no certainty of there being any there & that we should not attempt it
					so we turn back I am sorry to say.I have promised to send Mmiane
					Albert some beads and a picture I took of the camp.MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1922 79Chief Joes Cabin at Lake. warm.We reached here at noon and I stopped with the hope that we could get us some
						stuck but. Moses I am sorry
					to say has dropped back to his old way and I see no hope I thought he felt we show A stop, but at supper he said we should be abHealy non- That attitude wories
					me.This morning I paid 13 dollars for Moses for the dogs shouldlike to have j oneRohusonCreek today but couldnot for lack offeed80 TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 1922Healy.Chief Joe's CabinWe got in here this af af afternoon about 3:00 P.M. after a rather easy day of 32
					miles. The dogs are wearing down. We cooked supper and went to bed early.
					Salchaket Hurry came to see me
					but only for a few minutes I did not get to talk with him.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 1922 81Chief Joe's cabinHealyWe had a very hard but rather pleasant trip to Old Healy's camp 18 miles up
					in the hills today. The dogs went up in five hours & returned in 2 hours
					& 50 minutes. We stopped at Josh Ray's cabin and I heard his story of
						ruins. It is hard to know
					whether he has een with her or not I rather think he has.At Healy's camp. I pojtiseAmer. daughter of Agnes &
					Patrick Healy. born 3rd March. John and Mary Healy were God
					mother and Father.There were two boys cared for by Ded Healy Julius and Paul I should like to see is the mission, but there is little
					hope I am afraid.A letter came to Old H. March which I read for him from MrGiggin at Richardson about
						amine. They want her to
					marry Norths. She is unwilling. I shall tachig Donit to go after her but hope he will not.We got back later had prayers and went to bed. I am sorry I did not yet write
					some letters for Joe.I promised to get a 22 gun for John Healy and some rubber packs for Joes
					children. 2 five yrs old and on 3 yrs82 THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1922Clearwater.This has been a very hard day and I am tired. The dogs are very much run down
					being fed our raw meat. Moses cooked for them tonightMoses is much on my heart and mind. Please God all will go well with him. He has
					much to do and accomplish if he goes out this Summer.It will not be long now- less than a month, I hope, until the Bp. is at Nenana. I
					am anxious to see how he feels about MosesI have a good many fears about Miss Wrights tongue. Things will be less pleasant
					enough when the Bp. comes but I want them to be just opposite.FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1922 83McCluskey, RH.Richardson warmWonderful Northern Lights The first time I have ever seen them cover The Whole
					Heavens.This has indeed been the bluest day on the whole trip. Added to it came the
					tragic blow of MrBettichers death. I can hardly
					believe it. A wire came from Miss Wright just as I was leaving McCarty.
						"Betticher dead. Bless
					Moses cabin burned No news I can
					send by wire all well glad to see you." Alice Wright. When we reached here
					I wired Mrs BetticherDeepl Just returning Crossing trip.
					Deeply grieved to learn your loss and sorrow feel it keenly. Deep sympathy
						Sorrow best wishes to you
					and Ann" Alas I wired to the Nisser Booth Deep sympathy is our mutual Son and sorrow".Had a long talk with Mr Yuffns
					about arrivl and Mr Roy at Healy. headed to let things ride until I return to
					Crossing. Think it annisd to
					have her marry North even though the Healy people desire it.God bless Moses those at home those at Nenana and Mrs Bellichr
					& Ann & Booth84 SATURDAY, MARCH 25, 1922St. Luke'sMission HouseSalchaket.This has been a plesant day We had lunch at Taylors. I promised to send him
					pictures of Mary if I can find any. Poor man he is having a hard time. We
					started this morning at 6:00 o'clock The earliest start on this trip.I had some anxieties, but fair all well.Most of the people are out keuling I am glad to say - only about 7 here.We had to break in the front door of the Mission but Fixed it back again. My key
					did not fit.I was able to buy a little king salmon here for 1.00 at Richardson I payed 22
					cents a pound and Moses tells me it was rotten. The dogs have been sick all day.
					We reached here about 4:00 o'clock a hard day over the hills.SUNDAY, MARCH 26, 1922 85Fairbanks.This morning we got up at 6:00 and had service about 9:30. Only a few people were
					there about 10 and no one to talk.We left about 10:15 and reached the 18 mile house at 2:20 2:25. at 415 3:45 we left and reached here a few mints after 7:00 I made a sad
					and grie-vous error by traveling on Sunday and I suffered for it as sadly. I
					shall never cease to regret it.The people would probably have
					returned by night.The dogs are in good condition after the Trip and I am glad.We couldnt go down until Wednesday86 MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1922Pioneer HotelFairbanksThis has not been a very busy day We were up at 12:00 after I resthod night and attended to a few
					small things.I bought two pairs of woher Rocks
					for Chief Joe's children at 400 a pair but could not get
					the gun for John Healy and leads for
						Minies.We had dinner with the Belsons Tonight I had a long and the most satisfactory
					talk I have ever had with Moses. It was the nearest to a heart to heart Takem has ever had.I will Ihave phoned with Miss
					Wright. I am peeved with Miss Wright because she opened very personal letters
					and even those she opened she did not send. The Checres she found is then to the Brick.I bought the tickets $127 sund
					have but little left.TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 1922 87Fairbanks Into Cold & Clear.Again we were up late. All has been most pleasant today. I went around to see
					Titus Bellis and am going to take Sarah and her firrs dogs down tomorrow. She has been living with
					Johnnie Saws and it is too
					bad.Mr McCluskey and Mr Zimmer-man were most intenrested and I am
					glad. They showed such interest in titins. Mr McC. said I lifted a great load
					from his shoulders.I went to see Mr Irwin about the fishing place for nothiers He suggested that they put up noticesWe had dinner at Belsons again
					tonight They were very ciud and
					plesant to Moses. After dinner we went to see Charlie Chaplain in "The
					Kid." It was the best of his I have ever seen it was good.88 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 1922Nenana clear.At noon today we arrived from the Crossing trip and the last of the Sesson. I thought of going over to
					the Kantishna but shall not. I was quite interested at Moses also leasure at the thought of going but
					he said he was willing to go.The children have learned well the Communion Service in plans Song. We samg the tune I compared to "Rejoice Ye Pure in Heart"
					tonightI have just writen to Mr Von Gosten and suggest that he come
					up to Nenana in April to see the Bp.There are many difficulties presenting themselves with the new bridge in coneirzrction I wonder what the Bp is
					going to do about moving the village and missionTHURSDAY, MARCH 30, 1922 89Nenana clearThere was quite a nice email in
					tonight.Mt Hermon Missionary Society sent a cheque for $25 for Moses Education and I am
					delighted I gave MrTepsen permission to cut 100
					trees off my ground with permit.Guths snidt a wire costing $5.
					much to my surprise.90 FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1922NenanaI went to bed immediately after dinner tonight I felt half sick with a cold. For
					a while I felt as though I were taking pneumoniaMoses was very kind and quite anxious about me.We studied this afternoon. He then got some sawdust from the Commission.Lena is very ill and may not last through the night. I am quite anxious about
					her.Miss Bridgeman says that Dr Kirby wants her to marry him in
					May or this summer. And she has decided to marry him this Summer. If posible she
					wants the Bp. to appoint him or he may have ? Fort Yukon.SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 1922 91NenanaThis has been a busy day. There have been a number of callers for magazines etc etc.The Commission refunded $300 on some freight overcharged.This is Miss Nixon's birthday 30 we have all been quite happy. I think,
					however, that I am really a bit angry with Moses for the first time. I hope all
					will be well.We studied this afternoon and a bit tonight. He hauled sawdust all morning.I assorted all my mail this morning. I hope next week to get on to my writing.
					For the past few minutes I have tried to work on the sermon for tomorrow but
					without success.Senas is fast declining I am
					sorry to say.92 SUNDAY, APRIL 2, 1922Nenana cloudyIt has been very warm today and thawing very rapidly.This morning MrJeps was up to service. I have
					felt very miserable full of rhumatism.No study this afternoon Moses went over on the hill. Last night I had quite a
					talk with him and got several things straight in my own mind. I have felt half
					sick today with a cold.Tomorrow at 1:30 I have an en-gagement with DrBowam with Moses however teeth. I am glad to get them
					fixed before he goes outsideTonight we sang "Re joice ye Pure in Heart to my tune and it sounded very
					well.God bless, those at home and Moses. and may He grant that I may go outside with
					MosesMONDAY, APRIL 3, 1922 93Rose's Birthday.NenanaThis morning I worked on my cor-respondence and requsition a bit then had prayers
					with poor LenaJust after dinner I took Moses down to have his teeth worked on when we returned
					we found Lena dead. She died at 3:05 "O what the Toy and the story must be those
					Endless sabbaths the blessed ones ser -
						Crown for the Valient, for weary ones Rest. God shall be all and
					in all Ever blest."Charles seems quite sad.I decided with Miss Wright to have the Mission grave yosd high up on the then second Third kwll above Miss Forthings grave. This a very beautiful spot.
					Moses, Charlie, Charlie Albert, and Paul started the grave.We ordered a coffin from Bergman to cost $40. I think it will be very nice.94 TUESDAY, APRIL 4, 1922NenanaThis has been as blue a day as I have ever spent. It is pretty hard sometimes to
					have to recognize some of the conditions that exist and anticipate some of the
					dif-ficulties that may come before the Summer is gone. It is pretty hard too, to
					take some of the blow sthat come from those that call themselves "your
					friend." I hope I feel better tomorrow.Moses and the boys finished the grave today, and Joe made the cross for it. I
					wrote to MrsBellicties, MrsHoses and Carl Fleishman.Miss W. paid some bills for me and to night Miss Nixon took down a teelegram to
						MR HortonPlease mail me one copy of a Modern English Grammar Part I and Part II by Buchler
					and oblige.God bless Moses and those at home. I wrote Rosa today.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 1922 95Nenana RainThis morning I burried Lena. It was sad, but a joy to know she was out of her
					suffering. She was a pretty and sweet girl. W hined her grave with while and pinned on pussy willows. It looked very
					pretty. The casket Bergman made in the shape of a casket was pretty too.Moses studied from 3-5 o'clock and again tonight. I have written four
					letters to day and so the day was spent. I anticipate my ordination with a good
					deal of plesaure, but I am far form prepared for it.I also anticipate Moses going "out-side" and pray it may please God to
					grant that I may take him out- I am very Eager to.God bless those at home.96 THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 1922colder.Fairbanks clear.This morning I received a wire from Eliza saying that her sister died and she
					wanted to know if I could come up my clothes were dirty so I borrowed Moses
						bru ches and before we got
					down town his fur cap. The train was very late. So I am right off to bed.A mail came in and Miss N. says I have a letter from the Bp. Miss Nixons letter
					said the Bp would be in in May. and Miss W's that Dr Wood had received Mission
					gossip. Also that Miss Laudon
					would be at Nenana next year and that he would rebuild the Pelican and Nenana,
					which means that he will be there nearly all Summer and there is little hopes of
					moving the Mission I fear.Johnie Saw came up on the train
					and is going to Chana with me
					tomorrow. I may stay there all night but will come back if I can.8 FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 1922 97coldDheme Nature Village clearJohnnie Sam and I got started this morning about 8:45 and reached here about 1:00
					P.M. We had quite a long stop at the signal corpse. I was cared back by "Joe" who
					begged me to urge those girls to keep away from them which I did without
					hesitation in my talk tonight. I hope it did some good. Albert Silas went up
					after Eva and they will be down tonight I hope to have the funeral about 8:00 or
					8:30 tomorrow morning and be started back by nine oclock or nine thirtyWe are stopping in Sam Charlie's Sam's cabin and Johnnie went over just now for a matress and
					some blankets from thehunier. I
					have not the key but he says the back door is open.I especially pray Gods blessings on Moses tonight and on those at home. I am
					missing them. Rachel Julius (about 10
						years old died 6th April daughter of {Eva {Julius Johnson98 SATURDAY, APRIL 8, 1922Fairbanks snow cloudyAll day I waited around for Eva to come down. I sent Sam Charlie up for her, but
					they did not return at four oclock I buried service and met Sam alone at 5:20 up the trail we were
					tired and hungry when we reached here at 8:40. Made it up from Chena in 2 hours
					10 miles.Betty is going down tomorrow all is well at Nenana. I have been worried about
					Moses Miss Wright says Miss Bridge-man and the Drare to be married on the
					7th June. I am sorry.I gave Johnnie $500 besides his mealsMrsClegg is to buy the things for me to send down to the
					villageSUNDAY, APRIL 9, 1922 99Nenana cloudyBetty Bellson came down with me today I hope to get a good many letters written
					before the week is over.I had a very interesting mail. my
						on. Service is
					paid from the missions House. No money in the mail. The Bp expects to be here in
					May around the first for my ordination all is well at home.The Coghills were up to supper.Miss Bridgeman is to be married
					on the 7th June.Tom Strand was just in and said
					he wanted his two childrens groves together when mowd. He said they would charge for the wood just what
						Newt Fron charged.I hope the mission is moved this
					summer and I pray that it may please God to grant that it may please God to
					grant that I may go out with Moses and that I may have the money to go.100 MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1922about +40 for several daysNenana clearMoses went about 6 miles up the Lenana tonight with Jarn
						Hagen to get some stills. I was much worried for fear he would be
					shot and no telling what, but he is back safely.I had a long talk with Miss W. about Miss B. and she is going to write her mother
					tomorrow that nothing may be left undone. I am glad.I got off about 23 letters today and hope to get off more tomorrow. Moses may
					have to go again tomorrow I hope notTUESDAY, APRIL 11, 1922 101Nenana cloudy & rainMr Hagan came up tonight and wants Moses to go with him to-morrow up the Nenana
					for a still They leave at 5:am and I hope will be back by noon. I hate for him
					to go. I am worried about him all the while he is gone. We will cook breakfast
						bef here in the cabin before he
					goesI wrote several hard letters today and am glad to have them off.This afternoon and this evening after some study we had a long talk and more
					satisfactory than any previous. I thank God he is opening up his mind to me and
					his heart somewhat. May God bless and help him.102 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 1922colder at times snow &
					rain+30 this am.Nenana cloudyThis morning Moses and I were up at 3:30 and he was off by five to carry Mr Hagen
					up the Nenana to hunt for a still. They caught Newman and brought him down. I was worried all the
					while, but Moses was back at noonBetty and I got off some very important letters and I am glad.We had class and clash this
					afternoon, but it is clear. I do not understand they boy I am sorry to say. I
					wish I did. I love him and trust him and believe in him God help my unbeliefA wire came this morning from the Bp wich much disturbed me. It fully recognizes
						Miss M. as Supt of the I.V.M. as his endorsement of Mr Dranes letter did. I shall speak
					of it to him before I am ordained.Please God I shall be able to take more out, but I should hate to be going out for good. However, I
					will not work another year under the present conditions.THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 1922 103snowingNenana cloudyAs I have inflammatory rheaumatism in my right hand Moses is good enough to write
					my diary for me as well as do many kind and thoughtful things.Mr. Coghill phoned that the Masons wanted to come up Sunday
					for service so it means I have to write a sermon Fortunately Betty Gibson is
					remaining until Sunday so I can dictate it to herAn outrageous notice came out in the Fairbanks paper about Miss Nixon The Easter dsurce. Miss W phoned MrsClegg and told her Miss Nixon could not be up. The matter
					of Miss Nixon's bluffing was taken up with her and I am thoroughly
					convinced that she is too young and superficial to be in this work.104 FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1922Nenana +16 cloudyI have finished my sermon and I am sorry I have only one day to learn it in. My
					rheaumatism has grown worse and I have suffered a good deal with it today. DrHardy came up and prescribed for me We had service from two
					to three a sort of meditation on the seven words.I had a talk with Miss Bridgeman and she does not feel at all certain of herself
					she knows she ought not to marry Dr. Kirby but does not know
					how to get out of it. She would not accept any advice which was a way out of it.
					They had a fuss last night
					because he doubted her. There could be no better chance that she has already
					weakenedSATURDAY, APRIL 15, 1922 105Nenana clearMost of the day has been spent in memorizing my sermon, but with difficulty for I
					must memorize in small portion in order to retain the whole in orderMrsWright has worked painfully and laboriously over the
					girl' dresses and has made forty pounds of candy she certainly is a worker.
					My rheaumatism is getting along very well DrKirby came up
					tonight about half shot and tried to persuade me to get Miss Bridgeman to say
					she would marry him and insulted me by assuring me of worthwhile fee. I don't know what he thinks
					I am but I am quite sure I know what he is.106 SUNDAY, APRIL 16, 1922Nenana Easter clearHad a very satisfactory far service to
					me at eleven this morning. There was about thirty five towns people there
						Masons and their wives. The
					altar which the boys carved when I was here ten years ago was beautifully
					decorated with pussy willows My text was "He is risen, The Lord is risen
					indeed"The children's offering was fifty two dollars and twenty cents that of the
					town's people was fifteen seventy five. Moses took up the offering on the
					children's side in proper form and did it well.MONDAY, APRIL 17, 1922 107colder-Nenana windy snowMy hand is better today and I have the splint off. I have been sick about all
					day. The first signs of a strange attitude forth Moses came again to-day and I
					am sorry to see it. I pray God's blessings on him. He is much in my
					thoughts and heart, but, I am sorry to say he is far from me. He is doing very
					well in his studies. I learned from M :
						Sort that Capt. Livingston is going up to the midpoint. I am some what distressed
					over Moses going back to the use of snuff. I am also distressed over my rhumatic
					condition It may mean that I shall have to go outside this summer for a year or
					good.108 TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 1922colderNenana clearMy rhumatism is better to day and I have taken it out of the splint.Moses has filled up his diary and is ready for another.I wrote out my requisition today and will get it off tomorrow. I also wrote the
					Bp. about Miss Bridge-mans desperite decision to marry Dr
					Kirby. The wedding is to be in June and I am sorry. May God help them.I pray God's Blessings on Moses and his life and work I hope are nice or
					well with him. He is doing well in his studies and I am glad. I hope all else
					goes well.I pray God's blessings on those at home also. They are much on my mind and
					heart.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 1922 109+2Nenana cloudy snowingThis is Miss Wrights birthday and we had quite a celebration.Miss W. gave me permission to use $26700 for Moses 4 pence which with his 400 he will
					have saved by July I shall hep have
					about $1000 for him. That will get him started any that comes in well help
					relieve the strain.The boys are very enthusiastic about be-coming scouts so we organized them
					to-day. I am going to order books for them and uniforms. I hope they can be
						grvious for them.Mr Van Goetten came up and said
					Miss Pick had advised him to go
					to Hermon. I gave him particulars about it and advised him to go. He is going
					out soon.110 THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1922Nenana cloudy.MrVon Voetten came up today to
						dinner and stayed a while at
					the cabin. He seems to be a very pleasant fellow.Mr Hagen brought up $15 for Moses. I had quite a talk with
					Moses today and I am delighted to see him waken up. He is showing a real and
					gen-uine interest in all things. I am thankful to Almighty God for His blessings
					and I pray for His strength and help. Moses is beginning to ask many questions
					and to seek correction and advice which makes me most happy. I have real hope
					for him.Mr Hagen brought up a voucher $15 to night and will probably
					want the team again Saturday.FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1922 111Nenana. clearMrVon Goetten was up for dinner
					again tonight. In some ways I would like for Moses to to room with him at Hermon and again I would not chiefly
					on account of his English. I am having a good deal of experience with moses at
					this time. He has a real desire to learn now.I had service this evening and MrBrandisn was up. It is very nice
					to have others here. We had class this afternoon and evening. Some things
					distress me still about Moses. I hope it will be possible for me to go out with
					Moses.My rhumatism is better and I am able to write a bit. I am glad. Soon I shall get
					hard on to my correspondence. I ordered a bugle for the boys and measured up the
					boys for uniforms.112 SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 1922Nenana clearThis afternoon I sent off an order to the Boy Scout H'd'q. for suits
					for the boys. Charlie South, Joe, Paul, Silas, Jumie, Morris George, Charlie Carls. Ordered suits, briches, coats and hat and
						Putties. Sent a M.O. for
						3240 The Post mistress was very kind to wait 40 minutes
					for me.This morning I read a part of Mose diary which was in-teresting. I made some
					notes of correction I want him to wrote.9 SUNDAY, APRIL 23, 1922 113Nenana clearThis morning I had service and preached on the Epistle from St John. MMr Von Gotten was here and would had stayed for lunch had it not been so late. He is going out to
					Hermon direct.I sent off my application for Scout Master and recommended Moses as ass.All afternoon Moses and I talked about his propension. We have talked all evening too. He has
					decided to study for the Ministry but will talke with the Bp about the when he canedy to decide definitely. I am thankful
					to almighty God. and am most happy. Never was happier before. He has thought it
					through thoroughly and carefully and I am most thankful and happy.God has heard the voice of my prayer and considered my crying. I am thankful. He
					has called Moses and I am glad. Moses has heard His all and I rejoice. Praise be
					to God, and Glory over Mos. May Moses Please God in every way.114 MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1922NenanaThere is considerable drinking in the village tonight. Mr
					Hogan asked for the team and Moses again to be gone all night. I anticipate a
					most miserable night with him away. Justin Silas is locked up for 60days and I
					am glad.TUESDAY, APRIL 25, 1922 115+50 all day- snow nearly all gone.NenanaMoses had a hard trip. Came in this morning about nine o'clock tired, hungry
					and sore from travel. He hit the hay and slept all day.Mr Hanson came up to see me today about the native cabin and
					offered $500 00 for the four of them. I fear one thrs 's some scheme. I wired the
					Bp to this effect." R.R. Com offered $500 00 for 4 natives cabins feel this may interfere with
					compensation from for Mission
					property please advise any plans to move mission or village They want answer
					immediately "I may try to get the Natives to move the Grave yard Hope I can.To bed early tonight.116 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 1922colderNenana clearThis morning I learned that Mr Drane had given away some of the cabins after the owners died
					according to Chief Henry. This causes trouble if it be so.I have made arrangements to take out $3000 insurance for Moses to see him through
					school should I die. The Presby-terian minsters fund offer a most reasonable policy.Moses I am sorry to say is not showing much interest in his work and studies and
					it is most discouraging and disheartening. There are three or four things that
					worry and distress me very much. Please God I shall be able to correct them.MrsJames Paul Sherman came up tonight and talked quite a
					while. She is going to have a child and is much worried after I am Priested she
					will probably make her confession. God bless and help her and carry her safety through. God bless and
					help those at home also. They are much on my heart and mind. I hope all is well
					with them.THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1922 117Nenana clearA wire came from the Bp this AM"Am consulting with our attorney will wire you results. Cannot give any
					answer until then. Am booked sailing 6th May via Anchorage." He will make
					my ordination about the 21st May or perhaps the 25th May. Later than expected,
					but too soon for examinations.A wire also came from Mr Homes
					saying that he would be here in the morning.My salary check came today for $20000 which leaves 21831 at the mission house to the end of the year. I can pay
						by my debts OK. I am glad
					and and coming out well.God bless Moses in his life and work.The graveyard must be moved. I worked over there today membering the graves oth118 FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1922colderNenana clearMr Thomas and his wife came today with eight dogs. They have had a long and hard
					trip of 27 days travel. He will leave his dogs here and return this way next
					spring. He is a very attractive fellow.I am confronted with the question of my ordination in a way that I have never
					thought it out before. Of course I will not be ordained without passing all of
					the exams required and it resolve itself
						into thru thing which is nall drecle before the morrow and wire
					the Bp. Then am to go out with Moses and study for two years at Cambridge which
						will take prnatiolly 2000 to
					fulfill my obligations also to see Moses through scholarship 800, Home 300,
						bus. 30000
						Gen. expenses 300 and Moses 150. several
						exp. with not a red cent I do not see this way was second is to be ordained for
					this Drallse only and that may
					be something I can never live down. It is too dangerous. Last in 6 reason here a oesean until I am
					prepared which will be two years. God guide me and help me. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.There are about 152 gram to be
						world.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.SATURDAY, APRIL 29, 1922 199+43 at 10:00Nenana clear windyI am much disappointed in Mr Thomas today. He does not express himself fouly but to my mind is
					intellectually dishonest. I offered the only possibility of training on being
					ordained. If Mr Thomas were willing to take my work here and give me time to
					study I could get upon it but he pretended not to see through it It is pretty
					hard lines when you have looked forward to a friend and found him an enemy. I am
					sorry.I have decided to wire the Bp. that I shall pospone my ordination. I cannot
					persuade myself to be ordained in the local ministry. It will be hard to wait
					but I suppose I must do it. It will be harder still to serve under Drane as a deacon. God have mercy on
					me. If it is because I have given the time to Moses I am glad to make the
					sacrifice I said I would make it and I will.God bless Moses and help him in his life. Those at home have been much on my
					heart and mind today. God be with them.120 SUNDAY, APRIL 30, 1922+50 all dayNenana cloudyMr Thomas preached a splendid sermon this morning specially for Moses and had a
					special prayer for him. I guess it was lost on him for he tells me he did not
					know the special reference was to him He had early service and the Coghills were
					up. He had a special prayer for me. It was good to receive again. This evening
					he preached on the saints. I could not help but think of the dear archdeacon Mr
					Thomas reads somewhat lie him. I
					have decided to wire the Bp that I feel the need of further preparation before
					ordination Do not feel that I can be ordained for local ministry now. Will
					consult with him before I take further steps.Mr Thomas revicled himself okay
						- many may. I am glad.MONDAY, MAY 1, 1922 121+18 at 10:00Nenana cloudyMessage to Bp "Sorry but feel the necessity of preparation before
					or-dination. Do not feel that I can be ordained for local ministry now. Will
						consult with you before I
					take any further steps.Moses asked today to go hunting Friday afternoon and Saturday. I am sorry to see
					him go, but he must have some freedom in hunting. God be with him.Mr Thomas is developing films
					tonight and we shall go over for a little lunch I am more than ready for
					bed.This morning we had a communion service for St Simon and St Jude's day. It is St Phillip and St
					James day instead. The above wire I sent to the Bp. against Mr Thomas's
					wishes but it is my affair and I feel it my duty to do so.God bless Moses in his life and work122 TUESDAY, MAY 2, 1922NenanaThis evening I went to Coghills for dinner with Mr and MrsThomas Coghill and Miss Nixon.
					It was very pleasant.Upon my return I had a long talk with Moses. God be with him The grave yard work
					begins tomorrow morning and I am sorry It is hard luck to see this RR coming
					in.WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 1922 123+24 all dayNenana cloudyThe Thomases went off to Anchorage. I hardly know what to think of him. He said
					many strange things He saves himself to meet the occasions and doesnt meet them.
					He likes to be a mediator I think and there are many like unto him.All is well with Moses but there are still many things that worry me. God be with
					him and Bless and keep him.I wired the Bp. today about the RR rung through the village. They are going around the cabin."Good work held up. Waiting
					your wire. Hundred men laid off."I am sorry I sent the wire.The work on the new graveyard started today. I hate to think of it. Tomorrow they
					begin to move the graves.124 THURSDAY, MAY 4, 1922NenanaI received a wire from the Bp. today Miss Wright went to Fb'k's. to see
					Mr Roth and I have just heard from he. He says God should not have allowed them to enter the mission
					grounds I am sorry I was not moregh on my job. He is going to dictate a contract to me
					tomorrow which I shall ask them
					to sign regarding the purchasing of the cabins. They started to move the graves
					today.I wish it were possible to get sufficient funds from danage to rebuild.Titus John wired that Tonnies
					little boy is dying. I am sorry Miss W. was going up but it cost 30 or 40
					dollars. Too much. I may go later myself.All i well with Moses today and I
					am glad. God be with him.FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1922 125NenanaMoses and the boys went hunting today to be gone until tomorrow after noon. I
					intended killing the dogs but will wait.I was not able to cross the river today to go over to the grave yard. The ice was
					to bad. I went to town and got quite a bunch of Interior mail a letter from Miss
					Bedell and Miss Pick and Mr Hughes which informs me that I shall be able to
					secure a pass from now on. I may go to Anchorage to saseet the Bp. though I really have not time to do
					so.Mr Roth dictated a letter to me for the communion which I think Mr Kesley heard
					over the wire. I think decidedly that Mr R is try-ing to cook up a lawsuit. I
					shall probably write them a letter but nothing of the sort that Mr Roth
					dictated. Miss Wright probably explained the matter O.K. but he is trying to
					trick me on it.I saw Capt. James today but gave him no answer about the cabins. They will soon
					have to have them but the Bp will soon be here.126 SATURDAY, MAY 6, 1922+20 nearly all eveningNenanaThis morning I went to the graveyard and they are getting on O.K. I have all the
					graves staked that are in the way of the R.R. I certainly hate to see them
					moved.Moses papers are corrected and offered he learns History by rote which is bad.The evening paper says that Arthur and Miss Rose are married and left Seattle
					today for Nenana. I am sorry.Moses came in late tonight. I went to the picture show but did not enjoy it.When I returned I found Mr Neuse
					here to look at the dogs. He may want to buy "Brownie." I rented Iamnysad for Govt. use. I hope
					he turns out well.I payed up some of my bills. Taylors, Thompsons, Coghills and Fowlers and Morris.
					It is a job I hate especially when I have so little money. It is well that it is
					done.DrKirby examined me for my Insurance policy with the
					Presbyterian Ministers Insurance Co. of Philadelphia Pa. I want to take out
					$3000 for Moses to assure his way through Herman should I die. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.Please God he will get there. I am most anxious about him.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.SUNDAY, MAY 7, 1922 127+24 about all dayNenana clear.This morning I had service and preached on Samuel and Gods revelation to him. I
					like that story and the meaning it has in it.Most of the afternoon after Sunday School I had class with Moses.Miss Wright returned from Salchaket She had a very hard trip. Tomnie John's little boy died
					and she buried him. The affair with Mr Roth was most
					unsatisfactory in every way. But I shall write the Commission a letter and write
					out a contract for them to sign.There was a very small mail in and it was unsatisfactory enough. No letter from
					home and no money distresses me. I hope all are well at home. God be with them,
					bless and help them. I pray God's blessings on Moses and his life and
					work.128 MONDAY, MAY 8, 1922The ice went down about two feet last night.Nenana clear.This morning I want over the river and they were moving some of the graves It is
					a sad and sorriful job.On my way over I gave Capt Tome a
					partial answer. I do not know just what will happen tomorrow as M Witon and others are coming up to
					see me. I dread this low business and dealings with the Government are
					serious.I had a long and hard struggle this afternoon. He could not make that one
					sacrifice that would bring him those things that will help him most I am sorry.
					God be with him and help him for I am anxious about him. My heart shudders at
					the hing to of his unwillingness
					and his attitude. God is able to help him and pray his Blessings on him.10 TUESDAY, MAY 9, 1922 129+40Nenana The ice is going fast. clearMany distressing things are happening these days that cause me much worry and
					anxiety both with Moses and the RR. I talked with Mr Irwin about the R.R
					situation and planned to go up on Thurs-day but will not especially on account
					of the ice, but also for many of the reasons I cannot leave just now.I am sorry to leave the matter for the Bp. for he will feel that I did nothing
					and shirked but there is nothing left to do now.I talked the matter over with Jim Hagen today.This week I shall work on my books and get them in order.Our copy of "A Modern
					English Grammar" came today and I am glad.130 WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 1922_46 at 10:30Nenana clearThe ice is breaking in spots. It will not be long until it is all gone.I have sent for some more dogs but I think now th at I shall keep them until Fall
					as I can get a much better price for them then.We have gotten in a good four hours today- nearly five and I am glad.Miss W. told me some very sad news today wk The results of which I dread to anticipate. I have many sad
					anticipations these days. God help me and Grant that I may help others.I wrote Dr Wood and told him I would call for the $218 due me either by draft or otherwise and that I wish
					to take the 128 out of this year salary. I also sent in my application for $3000
					Ins. for Moses to be paid in case of death to him 25 per ius and scholarship paid to
					authorities of school. The remander to him when he was ready & when to Alaska and if he is not in school
					to pay whole to him when he was is returned to Alaska. This covers in case he
						s moth school then Mt
					Hermon.THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1922 131+48Nenana Daylight at 10:00 clearThe river is breaking fast. and well probably go out tomorrow or next day.This morning I helped Moses & Charlie Albert pull the raft of the fish wheel
					out. It was hard work. Much to my surprise Moses insulted me. The first time. I
					little ex-pected it. I feel like throwing up the whole affair of his education
					when I think of it but I must see him through. It would make me feel very sad to
					see him give it up now, no matter what he does and I would never get over it. I
					guess I expect too much of him.This afternoon we had class and I wrote a bit. We are in Ratio and Proportion and
					it is hard.The ice is running today.132 FRIDAY, MAY 12, 1922+38 at 10:00 p.m.Nenana clearThe ice moved about 1:00 oclock today The whistle blew and there was great
					excitement. For the past few days many men and women have come up to look at the
					ice. We saw it about 6:45. It does not take it long to go under the hot sun. We
					have had no rain so far. I had quite a time with Moses this morning. This
					evening he wanted to go hunting with NaT
						Sthince but I feel it is not well. These night trys are most
					demoralizing and teach him bad habits. I am sorry.God I pray thy Blesings on him Give him wisdom and a truthful heart. Help me that
					I may have wisdom and strength in all my dealings with him. And bring him safely
					to Hermon's Hill there he may learn to serve thee as he ought. Through
					Jesus Christ Our Lord Amen.SATURDAY, MAY 13, 1922 133+40 at 11:00 PMNenana cloudyThe ice moved today a good deal, but it has jammed below here and the water is
					backing up. I think it is going out with much commotion.This afternoon Moses changed in regard to his expression the other day about
					telling me nothing of his life and gave a rather free experssion of what he
					wants to do. God help him and grant that he may do as he felt at the time he
					wants to do. And God give me wisdom to help him.The prospector of the Tanena Resturant asked me to marry him to day to his
					bookkeeper, but I found he was a divorsed man and I could not I am sorry he is
					divorsed. She is a very well sort of woman.The Post Office caught on fire today but did not burn out I think.Moses returned from hunting about eleven oclock.134 SUNDAY, MAY 14, 1922+40Nenana cloudy and a lot of rain.I am happy tonight for Moses has talked more heart to heart than he has ever
					talked before. He also made his final decision to study for the ministry today.
					There are many things I want to talk with him about, but I must be wise God help
					me to do his holy will in these things and give me wisdom God I pray thy
					Blessings and thy Guidence in in all these matters with Moses and help me that I
					may teach him. His Teach me all I
					should know and give me faith. Though Jesus Christ our Lord.Mr Edwards came in tonight. I was going to Talfs with Dr Kirby but he came up
					drunk.There was a small outside mail but unsatisfactory.Drmo Kirby and Miss Bridgeman came
					over late tonight to ask me to marry them. I had to concent but hated to. He was
					drunk and expressed his lust of
					her flesh. a tragic thing. Why The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.was she ever foolish enough to consent.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.Con. pg #83 Diary #1 - 1931MONDAY, MAY 15, 1922 135+35Nenana clear & beautifulThis has been a night of tragedy and sorrow and distress. The beginning of
					sleepless nights and the beginning of new anxieties. The one great hope of my
					life has been that I should never have hery one seeking my life. That hangs over my head now with all
					its force.I told Miss B. that I would not marry them if he were drunk when he came up. This
					morning I went down town to see him and told him Miss B was coming down to sign
					up the papers (license) Silas told him about Julia Pitasa was coming up. In the afternoon Miss B. went down
					and did not find him there. He was some where around town. Julia was also
					waiting in his office at 6:30. he came in and Miss B saw him with a crowd of
					men. She approached him and found him acting most peculiar. He told her he was
					sick. She told him of Julia and he refused to go see her. He said he was going
					to dress for the wh wedding which was
					appointed for 4:30 Miss B. returned and I The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.can. Diary #1. Pg. 83. 1921The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.136 TUESDAY, MAY 16, 1922NenanaThis morning after a sleepless night I phoned the Bp. but he could not understand
					what I wanted to tell him about Miss B. This afternoon after a talk with Mr Hager I made another attempt and then Miss W. talked with
					him and he understood her. The decision is that Miss B leaves tomorrow. She is
					all packed up and ready to leave.Moses did not return and I became most anxious about him. Joe and I went after
					him and we got back after one. We learned that Dr K. or some-one had been here and peeped
					in Miss W.'s window. We sat up all night and watched for him but there were
					no other signs. It is miserable to feel that there is someone seeking your
					life.WEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1922 137NenanaAgain we watched all night last night and it was miserable enough. about eleven
					o'clock Dr K sent a messenger up with a cross Miss B had
					included in the money bag. Dr K. was up about 8:00 oclock and
					told Miss W. we had made a slick job of it. I gave him the money and the leather
					bag. Miss B. also included a prayer book in it.Miss B left today and she seemed very happy to go. She is doubtless off a little.
					We saw her off. Moses & NAF
					Johnnie took he down in a boat
					and she seemed to Think it was very romanticWe are watching all night tonight. Moses and I.Moses is much concerned about my welfare and I think God for the kindly interest
					and attention he shows.138 THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1922NenanaArthur came today and it is
					pleasant to see him.. He says he expected to be ordained with me I hope I shall
					be ready before they leave. God Grant His Blessings on my preparation.Druthers watched tonight and I
					feel that that things are coming out all O.K.The Bp is coming to build the boat then go H. th. Crossing and the Allakaket. I wish I could go to.FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1922 139Nenana.We have studied all day today so that Moses and Arthur can go hunting on Monday
					and Tuesday. He has worked hard. Arthur has done his work and he seems very
					happy over the Prospect.I talked with Arthur today and am very glad to have his attitude of mind.I pray Gods Blessings on Arthur and his work and on Moses and all that lies
					before him. On those at home and on the day of my ordination God grant that it
					may be soon.140 SATURDAY, MAY 20, 1922NenanaMoses and I have studied all day and have accomplished a good deal in the way of
					compliments. Subjection objection and Direct Objects. We take up modifiers next.
					Moses spirit so fine.Arthur plans to buy Dicks boat which with the new 35 horse power engine
					in-stalled it will be fine.We move trains go to Anchorage for few days. I hope the Bp. comes in.SUNDAY, MAY 21, 1922 141NenanaThis morning Arthur read the prayers and gave the children a splendid talk. It
					was really an appreciation of the workers and missionaries. I think the children
					took it all in.After dinner, Miss W. telephoned the Bp. for me and told him I would be ordained
					if he were willing for me to be under the conditions. I am willing to sacrifice
					a a point for Athurs sake and have him ordained before he goes to the Crossing
					for he will be of more use there. He will not be ordained I am afraid unless he
					is ordained with some one. God grant it may be Rx. He said he did not have A's paper back and did not know that he was ready
					to ordain him.Dr K. phoned and told Miss W.that it is a long road without an
						turning. And he hoped she
					would come soon. I hope not or with a
						tent he would not bring it about.The Bp. sent Miss B. to Ketchican.142 MONDAY, MAY 22, 1922NenanaArthur Moses and NAT Johnnie went
					hunting this afternoon. Moses has worked quite hard these past few days to get
					ready to go on this hunting trip they will be back Thursday.I was unable to sleep so I took Joe hunting. We went across the river on the lake
					then crossed back to Horseshoe lake wet and cold we came to the cabin at 5: a.m.
					After a few hours sleep I visited the school. andTUESDAY, MAY 23, 1922 143NenanaThis morning I did a good deal of work down town and this afternoon fought a big
					forest fire down town - back of the
					mission. Moses worked on the boat all day and we had a very unsatisfactory class
					this evening. I am afraid we are going to have a hard time covering the
					work.I see a great many difficult and unpleasant things before me. God be with me and
					give me strength to bear them.O God Grant that I may not be filled with foolish fear and anxieties and vain
					suspicion. This hinders my work and deters the coming of thy kingdom. Bless
					those at home and Bless Moses with courage and strength to do his work well and
					Bless the day of my ordination if it be Thy holy will for it & come so soon. Through Jesus Christ
					Our Lord. Amen.144 WEDNESDAY, MAY 24, 1922Con from 146 pg.11 THURSDAY, MAY 25, 1922 145The wedding party and wethuns
						wereLeo Speybrook from Buchnage - groomMable A. Isaacson mmm Capolis
						mmm. - brideMartin Barndollar - gave bride awayEsther S. Barndollar - maid of honorC. A. McDougall - best man.There were many funny things about this wedding. The Barndollars scarcely knew
					the groom and had never seen the bride. Mrs B. had some
					Crisanthamoms send her. four of
					these were tired on to the brides bosom by a narrow ribbon about her waist for
					want of a pin. The Bride and Groom were both much excited, but much in cornest. They had just driven over
					from Hope with Martins team today and such a time as they seem to have had. He
					is 26 and she is 25. a happy pair. God bless them. Leo and Juinny have been living together for
					some time I wonder what is going to become of that poor boy.See pg. 357146 FRIDAY, MAY 26, 1922went to the restaurant and had a light lunch and the two decided to get married.
					We went over to the hotel and Mr at 2:00 o'clock went over to the Judge and
					awoke him. He went to the office and made out a license for them. We went out to
					the Barndollars and at 3:00 o'clock a.m. they were married. What a queer
					experience. One uded I never
					knew before. After the wedding which was a most happy one we had a breakfast of
					waffles and coffee etc.and then Jainnie Hawkins came over. Poor boy. He was about three sheets in
					the wind and very witty and
						fuming. One could not help
					but laugh, but it was sad. at 5:15 we left. I had a cup of tea with Juinne and we had a long talk. He
					told me as sad a story as I have ever heard. I wish I could talk with him when
					he is sober. A wretched life.God I pray thy Blessings on him. He was disappointed that he knew nothing of the
					wedding. Poor boy. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.See pg. 145.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.SATURDAY, MAY 27, 1922 147NenanaThis morning I attended to some matters about the place and wrote a letter to
					mother telling her about my coming "outside" and my ordination This
					afternoon I workedo n the Pelican # II. The Bp said that I should have charge of
					it here and hard all the freeight to the different points in the Dubrion I am glad.This evening I covered the grammar work with Moses. There are many difficult
					situations arising between Miss W. and the Bp and my-self.148 SUNDAY, MAY 28, 1922Nenanaat 7:30 we had early service the Bp- The celebrant. at 11:00 the Bp preached.
					Only two people came up from the white town. This afternoon after Sundays chores
					we studied and again this evening Moses still has a good deal of work to do in
					his books.I sent off a letter to Mr Hughes engaging reservations on the
					Alameda.MONDAY, MAY 29, 1922 149Nenana.This morning I spent some time down town and this afternoon went over a few
					things with Arthur. I am finding myself very poorly prepared. This evening Moses
					and N s he deal.Today I sent off a letter to Mr Stowe asking for a pass across
					the Continent.150 TUESDAY, MAY 30, 1922Nenana.This has been a very distress-ing day. I have to have a talk with the Bp and I
					dread it.With all the anguish it has ended
					well. Moses has definitely decided to study for the minstry and has written DrLuttu at Mt Hermon. I am
					thankful.This afternoon I acted as Prelate at the Memorial Service of the Moose our
					Pioneers in the Colesseum The Bp. gave a wonderful and helpful fire address We
					called on Mr Edmonds afternoonThe Bp. agreed that he desired a ritualistic service. I am glad.He expressed a fair opinion of Moses and said he liked his looks but that he was
					not able to judge him.WEDNESDAY, MAY 31, 1922 151Nenana colder & rain.I have worked on the garden all day save a while this morning when we all helped
					turn the boat over. The Bp. sprained his ankle.This afternoon I had a long talk with the Bp. about Miss W. and Mr Drane. He assures me that Drane has nothing to do in the Tanana
					Valley save as a visitor. and that I am in charge of this mission. Miss W. of
						Tortella Hall. I am glad to
					have this understanding. Moses is going on the boat with us and Charlie Pitka is going to take Moses place
					when Moses goes outside.152 THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 1922Nenana rain & colderThis morning I went down town to see to the freight and found that the tractor
					has came. I am glad.Moses worked most of the day on the boat, but helped this afternoon on the
					potatoes. All the potatoes are planted now and this evening while Moses went to
					the show I finished planting the cauliflower and some pansies and asters for
					Miss W.I planted 150 cabbage plants and 50 cauliflower. also five rows of beaus. Tomorrow I shall get in some
					beets and carrots & turnips.We are getting a bit behind in studies but I pray God to bless and help him.The Bp. gave a good talk tonight at the service of prepa-ration for the village
					people.FRIDAY, JUNE 2, 1922 153The Bp. gave a talk tonight & the Natives I had hoped that Arthur larnd Dutes pret about spongdsta tell
					the Bp. he would.This has been a busy day and a very hard one.We have been catching a good many white fish and suckers in the net and it make
					things go pretty well.154 SATURDAY, JUNE 3, 1922NenanaJohnne came on the Gen. Jacobs tonight and we have talked for somet ime about
					affairs in general. I am glad he is going to Sewanee. He is the Same Johnne and
					a fine boy. I hope someday he goes into the ministry too.SUNDAY, JUNE 4, 1922 155Nenana.A small mail came tonight. The Bp. preached a splendid sermon this moning and this eveningwe had a service all in Judines.
					I wish I could read it as Arthur does.The Bp. told the natives that those who had been drinking and living with whte now could not come to
						Communion. The guilty ones
					did not come.156 MONDAY, JUNE 5, 1922Nenana.This has been a very hard day. I ordered a coffin for Miss Farthing's body
					today. Unfortunately while we were lifting the body out one man slipped and the
					rope slipped. The body fell from the top of the grave. In this it was buried the
					strong way it fell on the head and the whole thing was ghastly and horrifying It
					makes me sick. The body was all in tact I helped lift it on to the sheet. I was
					not worthy to touch the feet of that saint but am thankful I had the
					privilege.This afternoon Miss W. Mr Hughes Moses. Charlie Albert The Bishop and I went
					over. The Bp. consecrated the grave yard and Miss Farthing's body was again
					laid to rest. God bless her soul in Paradise.TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 1922 157NenanaWe spent the whole morning on the tractor and finally on evening we got it up to the RR crossing. It will not
					run. The crank is too stiff to turn It must be in the bearings.Much to my surprise I learned of Mrs Allreds sickness. She was
					found unconcious in bed this morning. I went down and baptised her.Mrs Clara Allked - I have not found out the date of her birth etc as
					yet.All during the day I made attempts at my examinations and finshed them about
					midnight tonight. They were hard and I know little about them.158 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7, 1922NenanaThis morning the ordination service of Arthur and myself began about at 9:30. The Church was
					beautifully decorated with brick and cotton word The carved altar was lovely. The children sang well
					and the whole service was most comforting and helpful. He said that troubles
					would come and discouragement but to never fear nor worry and to be be will to give up life for the cause
					of Christ. Mr Hughes presented Arthur and he was ordained then I was ordained
					and the Bp. took us by the hand and led us into in side the altar rail for the celebration. I administered the
					bread and Arthur the chalice. The Bp. gave me a beautiful BibleI thought much of the Dear Archdeacon and it seemed as though his hand s too were
					placed on my head.God grant me grace to do thy work and Thy Will that for these I may accomplish great things
					through Jesus Christ our LordAmen.THURSDAY, JUNE 8, 1922 159NenanaAll day we have been working on the tractor save the time that I went to the Dock
					to see them off with Mrs Allred's Body. It was very sad
					indeed and it makes me feel down in spirit a bit. I am very sorry for them, but
					am most thankful I could baptise her before she died.Tonight I found that Moses has hidden something from me and it makes me sick to
					think of it. I knew all the time it was so I have seen it again and again but he
					has promised me and I know he will stick to it. God help him. My soul is rapped
					up in that boy.Word came to the Bp. that Deloress Puck is engaged to Johnnie Adams. I am not
					surprised160 FRIDAY, JUNE 9, 1922NenanaWe got the Tractor running to-day. It was hard to start and we had finally to put
					gasoline into the kero-sine tank. I hope we shall be able to do a good deal of
					work here with it.A thing happened today which distresses me very much, but I cannot write of it
					here. God grant me thig
					blessings and knowledge and under-standing; faith to believe and love to trust.
					Give me God of thy Grace Thy love and what ever it pleases the of the secrets of
					Thy Heart that I may work thy will and service. Use ever me God I beseech Thee Through Jesus Christ Our
					LordWe had service at the house amen. Tonight and Arthur assisted.
					He did it very well indeed. I pronounced the Absolution for the first time in my
					life. God grant his forgiveness. Through Jesus Christ Our Lord Amen12 SATURDAY, JUNE 10, 1922 161NenanaThis morning we worked on the wagon and tried to get it in shape. It was quite a
					job to arrange to attach it to the tractor again this after noon we fixed
						Pome now plots for the
					connecting rod and will have it all ready by Monday.Tom Strand sold me the sled we
					used last year for 75 dollars. I am very happy over the purchase for it is the
					sled the Archdeacon used and the one we took up the Mountain.I also ordered 100 cords of wood. Fron
						Tour at 800 per cow. The Bp. offered to help me
					with the payment of it.This Evening we studied. Moses is getting on well with his studies Thank God. God
					Bless and keep him. Please God he may tell me of his lies that I may help him. never was I as anxious as now.
					The tnice is so short. O God,
					Grant that he may I beseech Thee through Jesus Christ Our Lord amen.162 SUNDAY, JUNE 11, 1922NenanaI assisted in the celebration this morning and had all but the abso-lution,
					consecration and abenediction.
					The Bp took the rest. Arthur read the Epistle and administered the chalice. The
					Bp practed the non-ing and this EveningI went down to see magger this
					afternoon. Her arm is in very bad shape. I am sorry for her.My worries are growing deeper and deeper. There are tragic fears and anxieties
					that come God grant me Thy blessing of peace. Grant & God I beseecht her that I may be able to bring about repentence and
					sorry for srin to those who need
					it especially to myself that I may help others. God bless Moses and those Dras loned res at home Through
					Jesus Christ our Lord amen.MONDAY, JUNE 12, 1922 163NenanaLast night my prayers were answered and God granted me His Bless-ings and His
					Help for which I humbly thank thee my God and my King through Jesus Christ our
					Lord. God Grant that I may speak Thy words and perfectly do Thy will.This morning I worked on the wagon and on the Engine this afternoon Moses put in
					the wheel across the river and hopes to have it running tomorrow morning.God grant I beseech thee that that whaon may be burned this night if the truth is spoken Grant that
					I may have the funds with which to rebuild the mission is Zeu I go out through Jesus Christ
					our Lord Amen164 TUESDAY, JUNE 13, 1922Nenana.Tonight the Scouts took their oath. Moses (Scout Master) Joe, Paul, Silas,
					Morris, Jimmie George and Jeffry. They looked well in their suits. After they
					took their oath we took down the flag
					had prayers and then took down the flag.This morning I studied a bit and this afternoon drove oter trac lowdown fo winThe boy got the fish wheel going and cleared out the road by the side of the R.R.
					this afternoonI have engaged a car & have
						our right up to the grounds. It will make things much easier and
					we can have it y proun these
					with the tractor.God I pray the flur store boys
					and help them to live by to their
					obligation they have taken upon themselves. Through Jesus Christ our Lord.Amen.WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14, 1922 165Nenana Daylight all night and very beautiful.One week ago and we were ordained, Arthur and I. It is hard to realize. I find
					God much nearer than ever before.God I thank thee for Thy Bless-ings and for hearing my prayers. Give Moses thy
					blessings and draw us nearer to each other through thy saving grace. Bless those
					at home and especially my darling mother and father. Through Jesus Christ our
					Lord.166 THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 1922Nenana.This morning we loaded the freight on the car. and tonight hauled it with the
					tractor from the crossingI cot considerable. 500 for switching and a good deal for the Timce of the man who loaded it. The
					Bp. went to Fairbanks today and Arthur to Curry to meet his wife. I was able to
						secure a poss for him.FRIDAY, JUNE 16, 1922 167Nenana.We slept until noon today and I have done work about the p be ee.Service for the natives and the children went tot he old show.168 SATURDAY, JUNE 17, 1922NenanaArthur returned from Anchorage with his bride today and we met them on the way up
					with the Tractor. They were somewhat embarrased I am sorry to say.We studied all afternoon and again this evening after we returned from town.John worked all night on the boat and is working again tonight.Charlie Smith left today with no good bye Poor boy I am sorry for him. God bless
					and help him.God Grant Thy blessings on the service tomorrow on me as thy servant and on Thy
					children whom I serve. Bless and keep Those Loved ones at home and each member
					of their families and Bless and keep Moses whom I love. Grant that He may give
					me his full con-fidence that I may help him. Through Jesus Christ Our Lord.SUNDAY, JUNE 18, 1922 169NenanaThis morning I had an early celebration and Moses servred It was a pleasure to have him serve and he did
					it well. God Bless and help him I beseech thee. Bring to him all truth that he
					may know and serve thee better. I beseech thee also so to Direct and govern my
					life that I may glorify Thy Holy name and worship thee in spirit and truth. God
					forgive me my sins that I may help others. Help me to make my own life Perfect
					that I may help others to perfect theirs through Jesus Christ Our Lord.
					Amen.I preached on Love and Love made perfect in Christ Jesus this morning and on
						Sonnell this evening.This afternoon I had a long talk with Moses. It makes me feel very much
					distressed some things I see but God is with us.God Bless those at home. Through Jesus Christ our Lord amen.170 MONDAY, JUNE 19, 1922NenanaThis morning Moses washed and I attended to a good many things about the place.
					It has been a light day but a full one.Mrs W. is working at the Hospital today for Dr Carmich-ael.Wetter Later in the week.TUESDAY, JUNE 20, 1922 171Fairbanks This is for Wednesday.NenanaI phoned the Bp. today about some business for Arthur. Miss W. seems to be going
					down and down. Mrs W. is down at the Hospital today until
						moon.This morning I had service with Maggie Silas. Mrs W. Was
					there.at noon I went to Fairbanks to attend to a good deal of business on hand. I
					stayed at Mrs Hucks and it was very pleasant. I spent the
					night in prayer for Moses and pray God's blessings on him. Thery were many things on my heart
					and mind.172 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 21, 1922NenanaWe came back late to-night. Moses and Johnnie met us. I talked with the Bp. about
					the rebuilding and he is in favour of my plan. God knows taf Chure have the money with which to do it.THURSDAY, JUNE 22, 1922 173Nenana.This morning I dictated 10 letters to Mrs Wright. This after
					noon I worked a bit on the boat and tonight Miss W. gave Mr
					and Mrs W. a party. The village people came up and some from
					the little settlement down town. I do not like that Jessie much-man she is too
					fast and free.174 FRIDAY, JUNE 23, 1922Nenana.This morning I dictated 10 more letters and this afternoon made some calls with
					the Bp. Down town. I had quite a talk with Moses about the scouts. He is much on
					my heart and mind. God grant thy Blessing on that Boy and Grant that he may Do
					all that Thou wouldst have him do and give me grace to help him all the way. In
					to thy hands I commend his spirit and I pray thy watch-ful providence in all.
					Give me grace and strength and wisdom to do Thy will. Through Jesus Christ Our
					Lord. amen.We had service this evening and the Bp. gave a splendid talk on St John the
					BaptistSATURDAY, JUNE 24, 1922 175NenanaMost of the day I have worked on my sermon for tomorrow. It will be a difficult
					matter to preach before the Bp. especially at this time when I am feeling so
					very miserably. I shall preach on repentence.I went down town and saw Mr Hanson about the base for the lot
					for the ware house. He was very nice about it.I sent 3125 to DrPost ourDen apportionment for General
					Missions.God grant thy blessings on this boy I love so much. Give me Grace and wisdom and
					strength In dealing with him I humbly beseech Thee Through Jesus Christ Our
					Lord. Amen.A small mail came in to night nothing to acunond to any thing.176 SUNDAY, JUNE 25, 1922Nenana light all nightThis morning we had an early celebration and I assisted as Deacon. The Bp.
					cele-brated. The Bp preached at noon and I had some service alone save for the
					ab-solution and Benediction This Evening. Moses studied all afternoon and The
					Bp. and Miss N. came over after service for tea. and It was apleasure to have
					them.God I pray thee Bless Moses in his life and work I beseech Thee.13 MONDAY, JUNE 26, 1922 177Nenana.This morning I wrote several letters with Mrs Wrigth. and this afternoon helped on the bardge. I bought a King Salmon net
					Joe fixed it up and we put it in to night after prayers It was quite a job.I am much worried about Moses. He distresses me some times, but al will be well with him I am sure.
					God bless and help him Keep him allways in Thy Tender care. God be with him I
					beseech thee. Into thy Hands I commend his spirit through Jesus Christ our Lord.
					Amen.178 TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 1922NenanaThis morning I wrote letters and got off about 15. I am glad to be catching up on
					them again. I have a long list names to write to write to. This afternoon I
					worked on the boat a bit. Moses worked on the wheel.God be with me and help us to do Thy Holy will through Jesus Christ our Lord AmenWEDNESDAY, JUNE 28, 1922 179NenanaThis morning I wrote some letters and this afternoon we put the barge in the
					water and built skids for the boat which we hope to launch tomorrow.This evening Miss Hill arrived to go the Allakaket. Dr Cook
						for Fort Yukon and Henry
					Chap-man for Anvik.I received a letter from M R
						stour saying that he might be able to secure passes for Moses
					& Johnnie. I am glad.God I pray thy Blessings on Moses. Grant that I may have the privilege of helping
					him. Bless those at home. Fall
					all thy nurils and blessings
					Thank thee through Jesus Christ Our Lord. Amen180 THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 1922NenanaThis morning I went down with Mr Chapman after service and met
						Dr Cook. We went over to the station and secured a
						passs for each of them to go
					to Fbks.We shall go up tomorrow after-noon.This afternoon Moses hauld some trucks there came down to the boat and we worked
					a while.The Bp. has taken a terrible cold which worries me very much. I am afraid he may
					develop pnemonia.God I pray with my whole heart and soul that all may be well with Moses that dear
					boy whom I love. I am worried about him. Help him to measure up in every way
					through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.FRIDAY, JUNE 30, 1922 181FairbanksThis afternoon I came up with Mr Chapman & Dr Cook. I got Gibson to have the
					Crossing Freight up at 5¢ per pound. and Henken to take it from McCarty to the Crossing for 71
						J per pound. It amounts to
					1117.25 all together 9422 lbs. Then there is a piano to go which will weigh
					about 580 lbls. We. called on Mrs Dunham & Mrs Clegg. and stopped at Mrs Hicks.Dr Cook called on Dr Ronig and Dr Bucher
					and hopes to take his examination before the 15th July. Moses
					went hunting with all his boys.182 SATURDAY, JULY 1, 1922Nenana.I returned at noon today and Moses returned very tired from Julius Creek I am
					about haysick and could eat no supper.The fish wheel was out of order so Moses & Joe went over to fix it.SUNDAY, JULY 2, 1922 183Nenana 68This morning I had said service and as the Bp had to go to town I preached and
					had a celebration at 1:00 Arthur IntrepertedI preached on Humility.This afternoon the Bp. catacised the children.I had evening service and the Bp. blessed some oil from use in luistion of the sick.We She died this Eveng.God I pray thy blessings on Moses. Grant him grace to do the thing pleasing to
					then that he may not hors
					suffer.Give me wisdom and grace in my action and words with him Through Jesus Christ our
					Lord.Amen184 MONDAY, JULY 3, 1922NenanaThis morning I tried to write and do other small things but in some ways was
					unfortunate However, I got the tractor started on the small tank.I found it impossible to sell any fish down town. Hope to sell some later. Sophie
					cut the fish this afternoonThis afternoon late I ran down with the tractor and neoned some boys for Arthur.There is a good deal of drinking in the village. I shall have to go down
					tonight.We took a turn in the boat tonight. It is fine.God I pray the Give Thy Blessing to those at home Hear my prayer O God. Give
					Moses Thy blessing and safty and help him to speak the truth & the whole
					truth Give me thy love protection and safty and thy forgiveness of my sins.Through Jesus Christ our Lord.AmenTUESDAY, JULY 4, 1922 185NenanaLast night was a sad and sorrow-ful one for me, but it finally passed.I went down at 10:00 a m and offered the Invocation and read the Declaration of
					Independence. 4 Cocise were over
					at 11:00 and the laces came in
					the afternoon. It was a tiresome hard day, and I am glad it is OVER.Moses is sleeping int he boat tonight with Johnnie. I shall have no sleep
					tonight.God Bless Moses and help him to beseech Thee. Draw himus nearer to thee and to Each other I beg through Jesus
					Christ Our Lord.Amen.186 WEDNESDAY, JULY 5, 1922NenanaNo sleep at all last night and a good deal of hard work today loading the
					freight. I should feel tired but I am to heart sick over present circumstance to
					be tired. God I pray thy blessings and thy help.Watch over those at home and Grant if it be Thy holy will that I may have those
					things I so much desire for Thy sake.Through Jesus Christ Our Lord.Amen.THURSDAY, JULY 6, 1922 187Nenana.This morning the Bp. and his party of Miss Hill Mr Chapman
					Arthur & Mrs Wright Johnnie and Joe left for the
					Allakaket. Mr Scott attached a boat on the side of the launch
					and Mr & Mrs Scott went with them as far as Tanana. They
					expect to reach Tanana in 18 hours. and be gone about a month probably more.Miss Wright went to Fairbanks this noon for a weeks rest. I am glad. enough but she needs the rest.Miss Nixon is running things very nicely.God Grant thy blessings the way seems dark. Give me the light of Thy Blessed Son
					Jesus fo His sake Amen.188 FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1922NenanaThis has been a day full of sorrow and distress. My soul has been full of agony.
					When I think of the past present and future my heart sinks with in me. O God,
					have pity on my miserable soul. Thou hast not hidden those things that fill me
					with agony yet tThou has hidden all. God be merciful to me. God be mer-ciful to
					me. I know that thou art able to do all things Give me faith. Give me strength.
					Give me trust. Grant that when I come to thy Holy table I may come in purity of
					sins forgiven. Give Moses thy blessings and thy help I beseech thee through
					Jesus Christ our Lord and draw us nearer to Thee and to teach otherAmen.SATURDAY, JULY 8, 1922 189NenanaThis morning I went down town and attended to some business. Also wrote some
					letters. I saw Mr & Mrs Heycock and the family are to be
					baptised tomorrow. There is a good deal of jealousy rugrinig between Mrs Allreds'
					family and I am very sorry.Mr Coghill will cash my draft on the Board for me so I can go
					out.This afternoon we studied and I went agan to Ace the Haycocks. And agan tonight we studied.God be with this Boy that I love so much. Draw us nearer to thee and to each
					other through Jesus Christ Our Lord Amen.190 SUNDAY, JULY 9, 1922Nenana.This has been another day full of anguish and distress. God grant thy blessings
					to me a miserable summer. Teach me Thy Holy will and help me to do it. God draw
					Moses and myself nearer to thee and to each other Through Jesus Christ our Lord.
					Help me God that I may know what I outght to do. AmenI had 11:00 communion thudur. and
					talked on Baptism and the Lord's Supper. This afternoon we had a review of
					the Old Test and tonight I had service and urged those village people at service
					to bring other. I tried to send
					some Indian.We have studied today and covered a good deal.MONDAY, JULY 10, 1922 191NenanaLast night and the night before I had a long talk with Moses. I have little
					chance to help that boy I love so much. I must not expect too much of him.O God, Grant I beseech thee that we may draw near to thee and to each other. Draw
					us nearer in Thy Blessed Body and Blood in Thy Son Jesus Christ Give me the help
					where with to help him and give him Thy Blessings I beseech The For The Sake of
					Jesus Christ Our Lord.I baptised Mrs Minnie Heacock Mr James
					Leonard Heacock. HaClara Adabelle Heacock and Ida
					Heacock tonight. I was a GodFather and Miss Nixon and Miss Herd were GodMothers.This morning I had a Communion service for Julia Pitha and Fray.This afternoon Miss Susan Smith and Miss Bartbuyer came in on The Jacobs. Miss B.
					either has T.B. of the glands or appendicitis. She will probably have to have an
					operation192 TUESDAY, JULY 11, 1922NenanaThis morning we had several callers and then went down to see Miss Bart-burger.
					This afternoon I wrote letters and intended to meet the Train on which Mrs Alends body was taken out but missed it.Dr Kirby went off 7 miles tonight to marry Miss Bridgeman. I may wire her to go
					home.I wrote 10 letters today and one to Roz asking him to pay $15 for me to the Presbyterian Minsters
					Fund. And in case of my death to see it that Moses Tuition is paid in case of my
					death that 25 per mon to be sent to him as long as he is at Herman and the rest
					given him to retrod alos hr
					on.14 WEDNESDAY, JULY 12, 1922 193NenanaThis morning I had a Communion Service for Miss Bartburger and attended to a bit
					of business down town. I suppose I shall have to have coal furnaces installed as
					I shall not be able to get wood.Dr Carmichall wants to operate on Miss B. tomorrow, but I told
					him no, as I had a talk with Miss W. and she made some inquires in
					F'b'ks. and found that it was not too urgent at present. I may send
					her to Anchorage.Moses and I studied all afternoon.God Grant Thy Blessings on Moses Draw us nearer to Thee and to each other I
					Humbly beseech thee. Bless those at Home I pray and Keep them Through Jesus
					Christ our Lord. Grant that I may take Moses out and raise the necessary fuds to
					rebuild this Mission and and do the work here. Grant that I may be the Bishops
					chaplain if it be Thy Holy will. Through Jesus Christ Our Lord.Amen.194 THURSDAY, JULY 13, 1922Nenana.This morning I went down town and the afternoon wrote letters Tonight we studied
					abit and I have ha'd another talk with Moses but it is discouraging God be
					with him. and Help him forgive him. all The eich There Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.FRIDAY, JULY 14, 1922 195Nenana Rain Rain Rain for nearly four weeks constant rain and my soul is heavy.
					God my God I love thy rain, but lift thy heavy hand from my soul if it be Thy
					Holy Will Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.Miss Bartburger went off to Anchorage tonight with Dr Bison.
					Miss Fannie Cleves came in early
					this morning and left for the "outside" tonight she is very happy and
					full of fun. I wish I night do as well as MrBashist. Miss Wright returned to
					day and looks well. I am glad and thankful. Miss Smith was disappointed that she
					could not go but it was best. Dr. Carmichael was not very kindly under his disappointment but
					cut the bill in half.God my heart is thrice Bless and help me I beseech thee Bless Moses and those
					Dear ones at home. Through Jesus Christ Our Lord. I am willing God to sacrifice
					my life and all to do thy will and service.196 SATURDAY, JULY 15, 1922NenanaThis morning I sent a wire to Dr Wood. Bartburger Necessary Bartburger
					undergo operation Anchorage Probably appendicitis. Also wired Mr Hughes.We hitched the tractor to the saw today and sawed up about all the wood we have. Capt. Jones said that I
					could have all the logs ends that are to be sawed off. There will be about 15
					cords perhaps 20.Mr Heacock is going to take me up in the Sunflower.I sent the check for $100 to the Bp. today. I am truly distressed about money
					affairs. No money to unomt
					anything is coming in. Please God more will come in.God grant that all may be well with those at home and that all may be well with
					those at home and that all may be well with Moses and that I may have the funds
					with which to do this work and to rebuild this mission and do other work through
					Jesus Christ Our Lord. Amen.SUNDAY, JULY 16, 1922 197NenanaThis morning I had early service and was much disappointed that Moses did not
					come. Something is wrong, but I cannot reach him. God be with him. Grant us thy
					blessings I beseech thee. Draw us nearer to thee and to each other. Through
					Jesus Christ Our Lord.Dan was badly chewed up in a scrap. Dr Cook fixed him up in
					pretty good shape.We studied this afternoon.Tonight I had services In Indian. Miss Wright is going up river with us to haul cut logs. I am glad.God grant t hy blessings to those at home and to this boy I love Help me to do
					thy will and to hold my peace. Through Jesus Christ Our Lord.Amen.198 MONDAY, JULY 17, 1922NenanaMuch of the day was spent in getting ready to go up to the old Telegraph Station to cut logs for the new
					Chapel.Mr Heacock was to start ur to the
					Sunflower at 6:00 P.M. but did not leave until 8:30. The engine gave him a good
					deal of trouble. and we arrived here at 1:00 AM.We step had a little supper and
						so an slept ins thes telegraph UetenTUESDAY, JULY 18, 1922 199Old Telegraph Station15 Mile above NenanaWe got up about 11:00 AMPitched camp after we poud alone
					we were to cut logs. We found a lot of fine timber and will probably be able to cut all the logs we
					need.We have a daily cowh here on the
					river bank..Grand run of or dr of Scouts Pail cut his foot. It is a pleasure to have him
						urgla  with us. We have a
					small tent for him and a 20 x 30 for ourselves.200 WEDNESDAY, JULY 19, 1922Old Telegraph Station18 mi above Nenana.This has been a rlastly wet day
					constant rain. I went out this morning for an hour and cut four logs. and for an hour and a half
					this afternoon and cut. Mose & Johnne came out for an hour a cut 10 working
					together so we have twenty logs in spite of the Rain.After we went to bed Frank Touffle Miller the meat man and Le SePere came up bost legging. We had a wet sleep last night the rain poured in
						aug sosher our flow set It
					was a most miserable night God bless Moses keep him con close to thee draw us nearer to thee an to each
					other through Jesus christ our Lord.Miss Wright is fine. She went up to MrKeels tonight we to some of the derp.THURSDAY, JULY 20, 1922 201This morning we cut 55 logs and this afternoon we cut 25. Most of these were
					building logs though some were for lumber and some for just wood. The small boys
					and Miss Wright stewed the limbs and we sawed some. We have 100 altogether. I am
					feeling rather depressed at present for certain reasons but please God all will
					be well soon. God grant thy protection and thy help. In thy hands & conned ny spent.202 FRIDAY, JULY 21, 1922In campWe did not arise until late this morning for it was raining and we were all
					sleepy and tired. It rained all day and we got in only a bit of work but all the
					logs are sawed now into 35 foot lengths and cleaned.Fine meals. All is very pleasant. It is fine to have Miss Wright with us.SATURDAY, JULY 22, 1922 203In camp.This morning we finished up the the trail and are ready to haul ourt the logs. The boys went over for
					a swim and after thy returned I went over but did not swim just farthdGod my heart is nine though I am
						scu worthy to offer itThee accept it I beseech thee and guide me aright that I may help others. Let me
					know what things I ought to do. I know not what is best. Teach me thy way and
					thy will. Through Jesus Christ Our Lord. Into Thy Hands I commend the Spirits of
					those I love and especially my Dear Boy Mose. Through Jesus Christ Our LordWm Silas came awer. down today and and carried a note to Miss Nixon. French
					John & Cruge came to visit us - tonight.204 SUNDAY, JULY 23, 1922Nenana.Home again. For fear of rain we started home from camp today about four oclock.
					It took two hours to come down. The Sunflower came up just as we were loading
					the boat. They took our load and the ten of us floated down. We had tea at
					Johnnie Sigelands and found every thing well at the Mission.Last night William Silas returned and brought all of our mail There was $55. in
					checks and several interesting letters.I had service this morning and talked with the boys about obedience and
					opportunity. God grant thy blessings I beseech thee on these boys. Help and
					strengthen then and draw us nearer to thee and to each other. Forgive me of my
					sins and give me strength to do thy will. Through Jesus Christ Our LordAmen.MONDAY, JULY 24, 1922 205NenanaWhile the Boys washed and worked on the fish wheel some of us pulled out the logs
					Capt Jones gave me. They cut off about 300 pilrings from the pit where the plaz is to be build 50 ft high. They make about 10 cords
					of wood. This after-noon we hauld all afternoon. and tonight worked until
					midnight getting the logs out of their way. The boys are very tired.206 TUESDAY, JULY 25, 1922NenanaWe worked on the logs this morning and the boys worked all afternoon.Mrs Cheek arrived late and we were through lunch at 3:00 pm.
					She is Doe. Cl Elbert (Doc) Cheeks
					mother at Servance- a genuine
					southern lady- and charming Mr Petty came for diner. We had a
					wonderful time- playing tricks etc. She is jolly and full of fun. a real
					Southern lady. I am happy over the interest she has shown in Moses in
					particular. I think she has been an inspiration to Moses too.WEDNESDAY, JULY 26, 1922 207NenanaI have just taken Mrs Cheek to the Dotil as she had to leave early in the morning. We have
					been working all day but seem to accomplish little.Miss W. has been working on the Allakaket freight and I have told her to keep
					about half of it for I am sure sheldon they do not need it up there and we are greatly in need of it
					here.God for thy blessings and help I am most thankful. watch me and help me I beseech
					thee Bless Moses. I pray and give him inspiration and thy watchful care. Grant
						There thee they I may have
					necessary fuds with which to do
					the work here it if it be thy will to
					rebuild this Mission Through Jesus Christ Our Lord.Amen.208 THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1922FairbanksNenanaThis morning we Moses got up late. I
					arose early and went down to see Mrs Cheek off. It has been a pleasure to have
					here here. I met Niles Trumrel del
						Chetham. MrsSelfour Hodgson's brother
					and Major Gen. Morton.We came up to Fairbanks on The Speeder and bought Moses a suit. It is brown and
					very pretty. Shoes $9 suit 45 and garders 75 55 25 and 10% off made it
					reasonable enough.We went to Bilsons for supper and studied a while in the evening.15 FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1922 209Nenana.Last night was as miserable a night as I ever put in in my life. I hope that my
					life will not always be thus. Please God it will not.We returned at noon today and have been getting ready to go up after the
					logs.The Bp. wired that he would leave Tanana Monday.God I beseech the grant me Thy grace and help that I may help others through
					Jesus Christ Our Lord.210 SATURDAY, JULY 29, 1922NenanaThis morning we worked on the Fish wheel it was full of driftwood Charlie Pitka
					worked this afternoon.The Teddy H. came after the freight There was about 700 lbs. 2000 and about 600 bls. of Kerosene 1920This afternoon we studied for it rained all afternoon.I am much distressed about going "outside" I wish I cuold with all I
					have in my troubled mind. God be with me and guide me aright I beseech thee
					through Jesus Christ Our Lord. Amen.I wish Dr Bason to write the Bp.
					about nivs Bartburger.SUNDAY, JULY 30, 1922 211NenanaThis morning we got up at 4:30 to go up river on the Metan of Ra, but it was raining and we did not go. Hervas It was pouring rain so I went
					down to tell them.I had Communion at 11:0clock. and
					dinner came at 3:00 and we spent the rest of the afternoon study-ing. This Eveng
					we studied. still raining.212 MONDAY, JULY 31, 1922NenanaThis has been a nervous day with little accomplished. Tonight I went down to see
					Susie Jacobs baby who is dieng I think. She looks very bad.God I pray thee grant me thy Bless-ings. Help me to do thy will that I may serve
					thee as I right. Bless Moses and keep him. Grant that we may be drawn nearer to
					thee and to each other through Jesus Christ Our Lord. Grant that I may know what
					I ought to do. I Through Jesus Christ Our Lord. Amen.TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 1922 213NenanaThis like yesterday has been a day full of worry and anxiety and not very much
					accomplished.Miss Beasie Blacknell arrived at
					6:45 and all the children went down to meet her. She is fun. Ixpically southern in her speech and
					manner. a southern gentle woman and I like her.Miss Wright has given Moses a great many things for his outfit and I am very
					happy over it.God I pray thy blessings on Moses. Draw us nearer to thee and to each other I
					humbly beseech thee. Correct me that that I may be able to correct others. Bless
					me that I may give thy Blessings to others and especially Moses and those at
					home. Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.There was a small mail today and I learned that Father has been ill.214 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 2, 1922Most all day I have worked on my books. I am glad to get them fixed up.Henry Thomas brought down about 17 cords of dry wood, and Moses has hauled it out
					with the Tractor. We cut of out the
					slip some too which makes it easier to run the tractor up.God I pray Thy Blessings on my Boy Moses that I love so much Jesus hear the voice
					of my prayer and let my crying come unto thee. Grant that through these last few
					days that we may draw nearer unto thee and to each other through thee, and for
					thine own sakeAmen.THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 1922 215NenanaAll day we have been working on the wood that Henry Thomas brought down I think
					there is about 17 cords of it. Fine dry wood and I am glad. I have enough now to
					last until I return. If it be possible to secure gasoline cross cuts and I hope
					to get in all our wood this winter.The Bishop returned today and turned over the boat to me. I am very happy over
					it. The Bishop is most cordials and kind to me.God grant me Thy blessngs and help. Draw Moses and me near er to this and to
					reach out through Jesus Christ Oir LordAmen.216 FRIDAY, AUGUST 4, 1922In camp. Old Tel. Station 15 mils above NenanaArthur and Johnnie brought all the boys. Miss W. and Miss Smits up today we hope to get the logs out and and
					return by Tuesday.SATURDAY, AUGUST 5, 1922 217The work is going slowly we got started hauled in 9 logs this morning and two
					about 70 feet long This afternoon for the sides of the raft.218 SUNDAY, AUGUST 6, 1922French John and Cruger came over and are going to help us with the Raft. Cruger
						want to haul out some logs
					for us from the 10 land at $500 per day and honseferd I dont think I will have him do it.MONDAY, AUGUST 7, 1922 219NenanaWe were able to get in a good many logs today and the boom is made for the raft I
					came down to send up bolts and to see the Wrights off tomorrow Tonight I am
					going back to take the bolts myself Justin
						geruk will take me up and back. I find the Bp. much worried about
					the Wrights. I myself am glad they will be off soon. Arthur is all right
						Hut migrth is very nutalic and very doatful. She is shrewd and most
						mucinary. God bless Arthur
					and give him thy blessings and help- Myrth too.220 TUESDAY, AUGUST 8, 1922FairbanksIt was necessary to come up here today and I am sorry. We did not get in until
					nearly midnight. I brought Laina
					Johnnie up with Little Charles. The DrRomig says that he knick is about 3/4 broken They are
					going to put it in a plaster cast and try to straighten the spinal cord but
					meningitis may be already set in. I hope not indeed.WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 9, 1922 221FairbanksIt was necessary to stay here over tonight to get matters settled up for Ar thur
					and Myrtle. They leave in the morning. I gave them $150 for traveling and hope
					the do not ask for more. I am sorry for Arthur He deserves better treatment than
					that which he will receive from Myrtle. She is a deceitful hippocrit and a
					grasper. I hate to pass such judgement but it is so.222 THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1922NenanaThe raft came down in safty today and I am glad all is going well There is a
					great deal of work to be done and I am happy that Moses is taking things in hand
					to do it. He is a fine boy. God grant that I may better know him.FRIDAY, AUGUST 11, 1922 223Little Charles died this morning Bp. Rowe gave me $20000 from The Sand in The Dipton Horton
						Rd. St Marks account and Miss Blanchell gave me $250 00 fo
					scholar-ship and $100 00 for my
						export.God Grant that I may know what I ought to do The time is drawing near and there
					are many difficulties.224 SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 1922NenanaThis day the boys have worked on the raft and the skidds for the boat I hope we
					can get them out Monday.I had a talk with the Bp. and he seems to be pleased with my work and my going
					out the sermon and Servance, but
					I know he is not. I am growing to dislike Miss Wright more and more each day If
					I go out I don't know how I shall ever come back. She makes me burn like a
					furnace inside. and boil like a canderon. I do not trust her.Moses life is far from me God grant me thy blessings and thy help. Let me from all evil restrain Guide
					me aright and grant that I may know what I ought to do. Through Jesus Christ our
					Lord Amen.16 SUNDAY, AUGUST 13, 1922 225NenanaThe Bp celebrated and preached today. All afternoon I waited for Charlie Johnnies
					funeral but they did not come.Moses and I studied this afternoon & evenig.I have good hope for the boy. I feel assured he will make good I know he will. He
					is capable.226 MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 1922NenanaWash the horaning d Haven put
					boat & logs. paid bills on laws Arthur reached Crossing Friday. Every thing is just about
					packed and ready to go Miss N.
					has been very kind and generous. And had given Moses a good deal of the stuff he
					needs. Poor Moses is quite homesick but he has much of that before him.TUESDAY, AUGUST 15, 1922 227En route StatesMoses, Johnie Bishop Rove and I left tonight for the Great outside. God bless
					these boys and help them always. Billy
						Petty was on board with us and we have set up all night. The last
					sight of old Nenana will never leave the mind's eye of these boys. It will
					ever be a happy vision in their reflections God bless and keep them. There is
					much before him.All the family were down to say good bye to us Moses hated to say goodbye to
					those boys. He hung around them. Their lack of emotion and expression of
					affection is beyond my comprehension.For many reasons I hated to go but I cannot help but feel that I can do some good
					through Gods help.228 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 16, 1922AnchorageArrived here about noon today. Stopping at the Parsos bought ticket to Seattle $7250
					The Bishop bought the ticket for Moses and myself and John. He would not let me
					repay him. I am sorry but thankful that I shall have enough to travel on. The
					Bp. is very kind and thoughtful and I appreciate his kindness.This afternoon we rode around on a big
					bicycle we ructed and enjoyed
					it. Moses rdes well for the first time. I hope he can have a wheel at Hermon. I
					shall try to arrange it.THURSDAY, AUGUST 17, 1922 229On Board S.S. AlamedaWe came on board tonight about 1100 and expect to leave in the
					morning. Moses Johnie and I went to a beautiful lake about 5 miles out on rented
					wheels. It was a delightful ride and I enjoyed it.We went to the Lansdowns for dinner and to hear Dr Devine lecture on the Near
					East relief which was interesting.230 FRIDAY, AUGUST 18, 1922On Board SS Alameda.We arrived at Seward about 1100 P.M. The trip was delightful- a bit rough, but
					not enough to make us seasick. Moses enjoyes it.We passed Seal Rocks and saw the seal by the help of the search light.I had the saddest experiences of my life today a thing happened for which I am
					most sorry. My eyes though were opened to a thing which I did not realize. Moses
					is not altogether to blame for his strange actions. God be with that boy I love
					and help him Draw us to thee and to each other. Through Jesus Christ Our Lord.
					Give me a better understanding of these boys.SATURDAY, AUGUST 19, 1922 231On Board S.S. Alameda.Tonight came the climax of yes-terday. Johnie's stubborness and his egotism
					and his conceit reaciled itself
					along with his undue independence. I had quite a time with him. There will be
					little happiness and no comfort for me on the trip. Please God I shall be able
					to really do something for the boys. They think I do not see through things.
					Some things I do not but much I do.It has been a pleasure to have Mrs Worthington from Birmingham
					Ala. She is in the rich set down there and is going to help me raise the
					necessary funds with which to do the work in Alaska. She was Miss McDaniels who
					lived on the cor of Henderson St & Cum Cumberland Ave. in Knoxville. Was neighbors Corie McD. & the
						Gort, RR, between Sevard
					& Anchorage is her brother.God grant me thy blessings that I may be able to raise the money to The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.send Moses & Johnnie & others through school and raise the money to
					rebuild St Mks.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.232 SUNDAY, AUGUST 20, 1922On Board S.S. AlamedaWe have been tied up at this miserable pattery all day. They are interesting, but the odor is horrible.
					There are a large number of Scotch girls that get gut the herring and pack the barrels They work like
					machines with two strokes the cut open the heads and or throats it is and gut them then pack them carefully
					in salt. We are taking on 30,000 lbls here. This Prince William Sound so full of
					herring.Tonight we had service. I had the prayer and lesson and the Bp. talked. It was
					wonder-ful to hear him tell his experiences in Alaska. The settlements of the
					different camps and what the Church has done in Alaska. What place Religion has
					had among the inTuts and
					natives. And what the church is seeking to do and what it stands for. He had a
					large dining room full of people spell bound for more than an hour. There were a
					number of church people there and they seemed much interested.MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 1922 233On board SS Alameda.We stopped at the Nellie Wan Cannery this morning and it was most interesting to
					see them at work. I am glad to have had the chance. It was very amusing to see
					Mr Ziff explaining the detail of
					the work to some people. He is a good sport. It is rather remarkable that he and
					the Bp. should have come in and gone out together.We reached Valdez tonight and spent most of the evening with MrsHestly a very pleasant lady.
					There is a lovely little church here but to no one to attend it. It is
					distress=ing to the Bp. esp. to come to these places under such conditions. He
					has come and to spend so much money which is hard to get and finds nothing but a
						dirnted camp-ot is
					depressing and discouraging.We have spent 5 hours here. I am told that it is rely 1 1/2 days to Fairbanks over the trail. If I return
					I may go back that way.234 TUESDAY, AUGUST 22, 1922On Board S.S. AlamedaWe woke up at Cordova today. this
					morning and called on Mrs Zeigler. She is very pleasant. Mr
					Z. is off on a trip to the Kemkot mines We visited the beautiful little church
					and Rad Dragon. I have never
					seen a more beautiful church than it is. The whole interior is covered with
					veneer and panneld. Most beautifulJust at noon we started off and got out into the open about five o'clock.
					The boys are not seasick so far. Moses looked rough. Johnne isn't doing so
					well. He went to bed tonight in all his clothes. He says he is not seasick but
					does not feel very well.We passed the Watson after we were out of Cordova about one hour. Mr Drane was on it. I am glad we did not meet Cordova for I do not care
						to see him ever.I expect to bring back rowe canoes to MrZighe if I return to get him to
						K sint something for Nenana
					Chapel.WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23, 1922 235On Board S.S. Alameda.Nothing exciting has happened save that Johnie is guadnng and I have a subscription for the AC- I hope to get many.Mr Sephenson on Board is he is in-terested in Johnnie &
					Moses Bhowebles some picture
					this morning. I wi sh these tourists who have so inch money to spend for themselves would be will ing to
					put out a bit for others.Mr Clough subscribed for the AC He alsorisited Moses for Xmas, but I de-dined for him. He is just Miss
					Nixons type.About mid night we reached Juineau Mrs Steel was at the boat
					and took us up in a car to Mr Coubs.
						Theher. and Mrs Gray were there. They have a
					son nearly ready for Sewanee.236 THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 1922On Board S.S. Alameda.Last evening we reached Ketchika and saw Miss Bridgeman. I was not surprised that
					she had engaged herself to Dr Kirby. She is certainly
					foolish.The trip down through the Wrangle Narrows was beautiful We were fortunate enough
					to catch high tide and came through safely.Miss Aime left on the S.S.
					"Queen" for Ford Yukon. I was in Prt at Ketchika while we were here.I learned the Miss Bedela &
					possibly the the Buckes and DrRhetahn are on the Tipperson out
					of Skag way.It was Interesting to see Chief Wrangle's grave on a lone Island in the
					NarrowsI wired Mr Horton to reserve rooms at the Hotel Atwood for the
					Bp. the Boys. and myself.FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 1922 237On Board S.S. AlamedaMrsBeach Wm N Beach
					gave me $10 and a subscription to the Alaskan churchursa. She also gave me an invitation to visit her
					in My which I shall be most
					happy to do. She said Mr Beach would be interested in the workitc Please God all will be well
					and I am able to accomplish. Something in the way a scholarship for the tres boys and raise enough to rebuild
					St Mark's.God grant if it be Thy Holy will that I may be made the Bps. Ineplain and troud with him. Give me thy bings and Thy help I beseech Thee.
					Through Jesus Christ Our LordI cannot get my mind together on talks I
						wrad given I hope Ids
						int have to talk at the St Andrews Brotherhood Convention though I
					may.God grant that all may be well with Moses on the trip.238 SATURDAY, AUGUST 26, 1922On Board SS Alameda.We The following week is written up on
					the 2nd Sept. one week late.We are nearing Seattle and will stop about midnight for oil at Richmond
					Highlands. The Bp. could get off and walk about a mile back to his home but will
					go onir town.Mr Clough has given $500 to me for Moses.
					He is very kind and interested.The boat trip has been very pleasant in many ways but unpleasant in others. I
					have had the pleasure of meeting some very interesting and in-terested
					people.SUNDAY, AUGUST 27, 1922 239Seattle Washington.We got in this CM about seven
					o'clock. MrsRows and Paul were there at the
						Docks. We came up to the
						atwood and after much
					confusion got settled three of us in Room #201 They put a cot in for us.We attended Trinity Church this morning and St Mark's This afternoon Evening. Mrs Bilson Bliss at Trinity was very good.
					It was wonderful to see Moses as he listened to the first pipe organ he over
					heard. He seemed to enjoy the Services. Mr McLaugh-lin preached a long and tire
					some Sermon, but the choral service was very pretty.All afternoon we walked around but spent most of the time at Yenbr Park. After Serve we had
					something to eat and went to bed tired but happy That is Moses & Johnie
					were.I was never more filled with sorrow I felt in my lovr other The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.thng not mongThe preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.240 MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1922SeattleIt is wonder ful to see the Boy Moses that I love So Much as he goes about the
					city. He misses nothing I found a good deal of mail await-ing me and two sad
					letters from Rosa telling of Dear Dads affliction. He has probably had a slight
					stroke of paralysis and his memory has left him almost entirely God grant Thy
					blessings upon him I beseech thee. Heal him of his infirmity through Jesus
					Christ Our Lord. AmenMoses enjoys just walk-ing the streets and looking in the windows. He wanders at the Multh hides of people how they all
					make their living and at the moos of and rinbris It is all a pryzel
						and Miss Uef to tninl17 TUESDAY, AUGUST 29, 1922 241SeattleThis morning we attended to a bit of business and this after noon went out to the
					Bishop's house. It is bearbyd out there. I am true sorry the Bp couldnt spend more time
					at home. He loves his home. I am quite surprised that Pane is so poorly trained. He
						iw rites us in the home by
					"Come on low reptiles"
					He kicked Moses on the ankle and hit him with a stick. He is specially fond of
					Johnne.As we returned to town we stopped at Woodland Park and Moses if wer Joscin tis most the Amneds.We went to meet the Jefferson on the whole
						miss Bedell omm and she went to the mosu242 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 1922Seattle.Another day spent about town with a few things accomplished.The greatest event was Moses and John taking an airplane ride. It clost 750 for 15 minutes. Mose enjoyed it and woud like to have gone
					again. I wish I could go. John was glad Mora gh to get down. It was a great experience for the boys.I ought uv meet Mrs Cook and she leaves for Alaska tomorrow on The Colomoda.THURSDAY, AUGUST 31, 1922 243SeattleTo night we took Mrs Worth-ing ton to see Robin Hood It was
					fine and we all enjoyed it. Moses and John seemed to enjoy the jester most of
					all. His singing was splendid.We had luncheon with Miss Bedell and it was a pleasant in a measure but but
					tiresome.I do not seem to be accomplishing very much. God grant that acuray be well.This morning we went to morning prayer service and Healing ?. I went up to the
					altar and was healed. Thank God of my terrible injurrily that has tormented me fifter groups and woh It is the happiest day of my
					life. Mr Bliss laid his hands upon my head. Mrs Worthington was there.244 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1922SeattleMost of the day has been spent pittng Moses outfirt
						mes a part of Johnnies. John has been out at the hurs-sit most of the time.Outfoting is quite explisin I have God I shall be able
					to raise the money for it.John spoke tonight and did well. I am proud of him. His talk was well
					con-structed and well delivered. He told of his try to Arctic Village.I met Fr. Douglas and sat beside Paul Bowter. There was a gentle mar tire from Fla. Until its in John Islam mite Him. The Bp. talk was fine and I enjoyed
					it.SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1922 245En route N.P.This has been a very busy day. This morning we went out to call on Mrs Fly. The Bp. left word for us to have luncheon with him. Mrs Rowe and Paul were there and it was very pleasant at the
					North-old Inn. Immediately after lunch we went up to the Smith building Tower
					with Mrs Fly. It was fun for she is a good sport and very
					pleasant. She like the boys too.We afterwards went out to call on Miss Laura Cardin and Johnne went out to see a
					friend of his. We had lunch at Bolds and they rushed to the stationI am happy to be on the way home. Dr Wood came in to greet us-
					expect to see him in a etdh if I
					can get mody enough to rehow by NY God Grant I shall.246 SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1922Ene rout N.P.It has been hot and dusty traveling. I have read some today and copied off
						Johnnes article for the O.C.
					on the typewriter morning and evening prayer and Communion office said through
					the day and points of interest either enroute I retired early.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1922 247Enroute N.P.The scenery has been barren and desolate save spots through Mon-tana and North
					Dakota. I wired Clard Ross with
					the hope that he might run up to the mon
						him to meet me in the morning.A rain cooled things off a bit.248 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1922En route Burlington "C
					BadThe scenery today has been most beautiful. This section of Minn. and Wis. are
					lovely. We had quite a long wait at St Paul Min. and will not get into Chicago
					until two a.m. in The time is growing
					short when I shall see Moses no more for so long a time perhaps save once when I
					return if it is Gods will for me to do so. God grant that we may draw nearer to
					thee and to each other. Throg
					Jesus Christ our Lord.Amen.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1922 249ChicagoWe came out to the Smiths for dinner and the night It is very pleasant to see
					them again. Johnnie is not feeling very well and it is better that we stay here
					over nightThe big city seems to fascinate the boys they like it. I cannot leave them250 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1922En route N.Y.MrsSmith and her son & daughter brought us to the train
					today in their car. They are very lovely people. and I have enjoyed them. It has
					been a pleasure to see them and talk with them. Mr Smith gave John and me a fine
					pair of shoes I wish he had remembered Moses too. I think he realized it after
					it was too late. There is something peculiar about these middle western people I
					can hardly understand itFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1922 251N.Y.This is a fast train we came on though we could have come on a faster.Moses is astounded at the great loss of this big city. He says the streets are great canyons and
					so they are. We have walked about a bit to-night and are all tired.The Commodore is a pleasant place to stay but rather high in price. $600 per head.Tonight we went to the Hippodrome and I never saw anyone so overcome by the
					wonders of the place than was Moses. He hardly knew what he was saying he was so
					surprised at the marvels. It was a very pretty play "Happy times." The
					music was beautiful.252 SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1922New York CityTonight we went to the are tired we
					went to Wannamakers this morning and bought some things the boys need. I got
					Moses a mandolin. I know he will enjoy it. I wish I had one myself. I should
					have bought the one in Seattle instead.I have tried to prepare a sermon for tomorrow as I have to preach at the church
					of the Transfiguration tomorrow It is difficult task. I am not fond of
					preaching. After the show last night we ate some lobster salad and it made us
					all sick. That added to the torture of going to Coney island this afternoon but
					I promised they the boys they could go
					and I must had to take them. They
					enjoyed it though Johnie felt ill as I did.SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1922 253New York C.We did not go to early service this morning as we were all very tired. Johnie and
					Moses did not care to go hear me preach so they went out to try to find Clia and then went to the cathedral.
					I did not do so well preaching as I felt so very miserable I shall not try it
					again without thorough preparation. This afternoon we had dinner at the
					Commodore. We bless ourselves.
					This afternoon we wrote went over to
					Mr Madara's and this
					evening took a burs ride out 5th
						Ave. It was very pleasant. I
					really wish we had a little more time to spend in NY as well as a little more
					money.254 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1922Mount Hermon Mass.We arrived here this morning and Moses is assigned to his room 306 a very
					pleasant room and I am glad. Mt Hermon is the same old place and the new
						properons are as bad as the
					old ones. I do not see how anyone can live this life. Mose will enjoy it here in
					spite of all and I am glad. God bless him in his loneliness and teugt times. There will be plenty of
					both.We went over to visit the Watsons today MrsWatson is fine. Mr
					W. is the same old thing. How strange.The hill looks very beautiful and in some ways it is a pleasure to be back
					again.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1922 255Mt HermonMoses registered today and has for his roommate a boy by the name of Levester a very pleasant fellow.
						and er thad mool he is and a
						steady good fellow. I am
					glad and sad thing to me
						is that over boys to ast
					always cultivate friends among a higher class of boys but that is all-right I
					reckonThis afternoon we went down to greece find
						toct the Whiteman. They are really interested in Moses and I am
					glad.See page 284256 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1922Knoxville.No mail from Moses makes me just a bit blue tonight, for I expected to hear. I am
					sorry. Probably he waited until Monday to write. I may hear tomorrow. God grant
					I may.This afternoon I went into Burton and ordered a furnace to be put in the house.
					Saturday being Mother and Fathers 45th wedding anni-versary I wanted to make
					this a present to them. I had to get it on 60 days time. if I cannot get the
					money any way I will borrow it on my insurance.This morning I came in from Walters and then got the books off to Moses and Johnnie. I hope they enjoy them.
					After boes were sent I went out
					to Roy and Ruth's for dinner. I enjoyed it. Mildreds house is getting on
					nicely. It is going to be very com-fortable and I am glad she can be so happy
					while she is with child. God be with her I beseech thee through Jesus Christ Our
					Lord Amen18 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1922 257258 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1922SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1922 259260 SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1922MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1922 261262 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1922WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1922 263264 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1922FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1922 265266 SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1922SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1922 267268 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1922TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1922 269270 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1922THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1922 271KnoxvilleIt was a great joy to arrive at home this morning. Dad was here and re-cognized
					me I am glad to say. He looks well but his ming is very slow and it is distressing. but he looks well.
					Mother looks better than I have seen her for a long time. Rosa is well too I am
					going to try to arrange for him not to work any more. It is the best thing for
					him I think.There was a good deal of mail here and a splendid letter came from Moses and it
					made me most happy.God I am truly thankful for thy love and goodness to me and my loved ones and
					specially to the family of mispse and to Moses and Johnnie.Walter's here and I am happy to hear of his success on that ame. Grant O God that his success may
					continue and that he may always be thankful.I wrote Moses and Johnnie tonight. This afternoon Rosa and I bought Johnnies
					outfit and sent Moses a couple of mugs.Grant God that I may be able to raise the money necessary to do they work272 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 192219 SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1922 273274 SUNDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1922MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1922 275276 TUESDAY OCTOBER 3, 1922KnoxvilleThis morning I slept late and then dictated ten letters to Rosa. This afternoon I
					went up town and saw Miss Pearl, Kenneth, Mr Wiley and some of the friends &
					also got some of Johnnies outfit apts I came home I wrote four more letters and we will be off to
					bed early.Father is not so well again today. He looks very badly. His eyes look vacant and
					tired.Please God I shall be able to raise the money I need for the Bous, the mission and myself.Aunt Sally wants me to buy her losot
						woodlawn for $35000 I hope I shall be able to
					do so.MrsMcRobe and
						MrsSums asked me Hotts at the
						Ososh Club Monday afternoon
					at 2:30Kyle Jenkins wants me to talk Thursday afternoon at the Buones cottage. I am glad for the
					opportunity God grant this Blessing on my work through Jesus Christ our God
					AmenWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1922 277Knoxville.This morning I gave a very intelligent newspaper reporter an interview this
					morning and I just about told her all I knew.After she was gone I tried to write some letters but I have not felt well all
					day. I have taken a dreadful cold and am suffering with rheumatism.This afternoon I went to DrYesup and he put a shot in my arm and gave me some pills
					to take. I also have to take some sal nepotean and an enema daily which I hate but I will try to get
					rid of it.This morning I wrote Moses a long letter in answer to his received today. It was
					a pleasure to hear from him. He wanted to know if he should go to Comunion at
					Hermon. God Grant thy blessings on these to boys and grant me energy in my
					undertaking for them throught Jesus Christ our Lord.Amen.278 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1922FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1922 279280 SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1922SUNDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1922 281282 MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1922Knoxville, Tennessee coolThis morning I made an effort to prepare my talk for the "Ossch Circle" I have never been
					as nervous over any thing in my life. There was not time to write out a talk so
					I tried to follow an outline In a way I was fairly successful but felt so badly
					that I gave them a pessamptic
					idea of Alaska. I say frankly that Alaskas outlook for the future is not the
					bright flowery one that the polititions paint it. The Archdeacon says that he
					think Alaska will finally return to the native people to whom it belongs. That
					there will alway be gold there and always be white men there but not as it was
					in the early days.I went to see Kenneth about a dining room suit for Mother and Father for their 45
					wedding anniversary on Saturday but every thing is to high.God grant thy Blessings on Moses and
						JohnnieTUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1922 283See page 256284 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1922THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1922 285286 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1922SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1922 287288 SUNDAY, OCTOBER 15, 192220 MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1922 289290 TUESDAY OCTOBER 17, 1922WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1922 291292 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1922FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1922 293294 SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1922SUNDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1922 295296 MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1922St Augustine Fla.About 6:00 P.M. I arrived in this beautiful and quaint old city. It was a
					pleasure to recall all the things Kenneth Haus told me of it long years ago. Its
					narrow streets, its quaint old buildings and its wonderful hotels and this
					beautiful river & bay make it most attractive.I called up Mr Day and he drove in to see me. He seemed interested in my work,
					but felt he could not do much. I may wait until the noon train tomorrow or I may
					leave early in the morning. It all depends on what connections I can make. I
					feel as long as I am here I should see Mr Hindry and see if he can create any interest and
					raise any money for me.God I pray thy Blessings on my efforts to accomplish these things for me. Grant
					that I may raise the $500000 and Moses tuition for thy sake
					Through Jesus Christ Our Lord.Amen.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1922 297298 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1922THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1922 299300 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1922SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1922 301302 SUNDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1922MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1922 303304 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 192221 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1922 305306 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1922FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1922 307308 SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1922SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1922 309310 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1922TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1922 311312 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1922THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1922 313Enroute Washington314 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1922WashingtonSATURDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1922 315Baltimore316 SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1922En Route Mt HermonMONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1922 317Mount Hermon318 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1922Arrived New YorkWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1922 319320 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 192222 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1922 321322 SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1922SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1922 323South River NJ324 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1922TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1922 325326 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1922THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1922 327328 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1922SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1922 329330 SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1922MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1922 331332 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1922WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1922 333334 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1922FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1922 335336 SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2, 192223 SUNDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1922 337338 MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1922TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1922 339340 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1922New York CityThis is the last night I shall spend in Brooklyn. The King and Gus have been most kind and hospitable. Sometimes I have felt
					that I have imposed on them and I am sorry I had to stay so long, but there is
					no help for it. I have not had the money to stay elsewhere. At every opportunity
					I have tried to be away, but that has not been very often.This afternoon I went to the Capitol theatre with MrsFerguson
						Onerine Kozart. It was
					delightful and a special pleasure to go wtih her. It seemed good to see someone
					from home. I am going to write Moses to go to this show house if possible it is
					fine. It will not be long until he will be here for his christmas vacation God obs him and keep him from all harm.
					Make his Christmas a happy one in Reeking I huntly
					beseech thee through Jesus Christ our God.Amen.THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1922 341En route ChicagoIt was one grand rush to get off today. I planned to leave at 2:50 but was unable to get off before
					6:00.This morning I came in to DrOnderdouloo office and he
						finished up my teeth. Then I
					got my checks cashed and went down to Wanamaker and bought me a steame rug A 3500 and a pucary all 900
					and a few other things I needed. I had to go out to Brooklyn again for the rest
					of my things. Thro threw me
					late. By the time I packed and got off it was 6:00 P.M. I phoned Celia and she
					came down with a package to see me off. I hated in a way to say good bye to N.Y.
					I like the old town somehow despite all the agonies I suffered there. I find
					Celia's package to be a beautiful brass candlestick and the candle also a
					pack of Pall Mall cigarettes from "Joe." The last I shall smoke.I am glad to be done with operation. They have cost the poor "Board" a
					lot of money. My throat & nose woe about $6500 there so no telling how much
                my teeth will be. I am thankful I could be all fervd up. My trip "outside" has been
                profitable.342 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1922Chicago.After much confusion in rushing about the city I am at last en route to
					Mineopolis I should have left r at
					6:30.When I arrived I went up to Bp. Griswalds office to find Dr. Rendale to secure my posses. I
					phoned Mable Holgate and had dinner with her. The rush was so great that I was
					unable to find out about any trains & difinetely. This riding on passes is
					very confusing. I wish the contenentd pacs
						were a iter Great Northern and I could get into Scatd Monday night. There would be a
					chance then for me to reach Nenana by Christmas.It was very nice indeed to see "Holly" again. She is a very sweet girl
					and very pretty. I phoned MrsHonghtchirg and went out to see
					them but I found when I reached there that I had no more than hme word to say hurridly do and
					leave.SATURDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1922 343I am sorry for I wanted to get them interested in the work Dr Wood wanted to go
					to Nenana but I could not ask her and be loyal to Julian Scott. I am afraid that
					boy is not going to be appointed and I am sorry for his sake. I do not honestly
					believe that the Board wants to place any one at Nenana It is willing work to work its workers in Alaska to
					death and then send in a few more. I never card the like. I should not write
					this statement for surely they are doing the best they can. We simply must have
					some one, and I will do all I can to get some one if Scott does not come. It is
					an anxious time. Things that look like failures can not always Ro in God's plans. I want to do
					His will.This belongs on pg 343344 SUNDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1022Minneapolis. Minn.I find that it is necessary to lay overn here over night and leave in the morning. I am disappointed
					for the delay. I am sorry I did not know it while in Chicago and I should have
					stayed over there and had plesant visits with friends. I knew my pass might not
					be good on certain trains, but I did not realize it would cause this delay.This is a very pleasant town. I an stopping at the Andrews Hotel and shall spend
					the night in prayer. I am also writing some letters.One is dispatched to Roy with a cheque for $185 with which to pay for the furnace
					and DrYing also Woodruffs. There I
					sent twenty five dollars to the Presbyterian ministries Fund in Phila. on my insurance. I wish I had
					the whole $78 to send but there were things I had to have. How I am going to
					manage my finances I do not see. I need money so.This belongs on page 344MONDAY DECEMBER 11, 1922 345On Board Northern PacificThis morning at 9:30 I left Minneapolis. and I am glad to be on my way. I am
					growing very anxious about getting to Nenana for Christmas and I am very much
					afraid I sh all not be able to make it for Christmas. I shall be very sorry not
					to be there. I am sure it will be a disappointment to them not to have Christmas
					services I am hoping against hope.I am truly distressed that it is taking so very long but one thing after another
					has held me up and it is not easy to govern your time when you have to depend on
					Doctors and Railroad passes.Last night was sleepless, but most happy. I spent it in thought and prayer to
					God. There is no joy on earth like that of being with God in thought and prayer
					and confusion and repentence. There is satisfaction of forgiveness of Line past and hope for the future and
					the Blessed Knowledge that all is well.346 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1922En Route Seattle.This has been a pleasant day of travel There are some Interesting and delightful
					people on the train. Mr & Mrs Mar-dill
					and Mrs Dickenson who is interested in the work. She has
					given me E ten dollars for the work.
					I hope to have the pleasure of visiting her while in Seattle. MrBeadk from Calif. is also very
					pleasent and a Jolly good fellow. There were two young fellows very interesting
						for off at Forsy th but I did not gather
					names.Most of the day I have read "The Open Polar Sea" by Dr Hayes I.I. very fresent-ing if only he would subdue the "ego" and give
					a little more whole heartedly genuine audit to his sourfairious They have struggled hard. My heart goes out
					to Sontagg. God bless his soul
					in Paradise.WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1922 347SeattleThis morning I arrived here and went to the Frye Hotel $1300
					per day. My room is cold and uncomfortable.I found a good deal of ursil here
					and a good many things to attend to. At 9:00 o'clock I went down to see the
					Alameda off. Mrs Rider and her son were on the boat for
					Nenana. It was with a heavy heart that I saw that boat go I wanted so much to go
					on it but I am sure it is well for me d Nenana for a few days. With all I have to attend to. It is very
					cold here. The thermometer is not so low, but the wind is penetrat-ing. The
						thins is short before
					Christmas and there is much doubt as to whether I shall be able to reach there
					by Christmas or not. I hope I shall be able to catch a freight train that will
					get me in in time for Christ-mas day. God grant that I may I beseech thee
					Amen.348 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1922SeattleThis has been a busy day. I went out to Dr McClaughlins for
						dinna and was interested to
					meet hi m and his family. They are a fine lot of little children and very
					bright. All day afternoon I have been
					about seeing to some hardware for logging purposes. This morning Bp. and Mrs Rowe came & Paul. It was very fun to see our Dear
					Bishop I certainly love him.I am deeply grieved that I was not able to tell him that I had raised the
					$5000,00 I set out to raise It was more bitter dis-appointment in every way. The
					Bishop was very fine about it. He plans to come into the Intern in the Spring I hope he comes
					to Nenana I should like to take him to the Crossing.This noon I had luncheon with MrsArchinson and her daughter
						irs Law The Bp. told me to
					get a horse if I needed it and
					let him know.FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1922 349SeattleI have been very busy day most of the morning I spent looking at a sawmill and
						fet for Nenana. I am eager
					for the mill a plamer a cut off
					saw and a small hoist. I hope it will be possible to get them in time to get
					them set up before spring so I can do a good deal of work between seasons.This after noon I wanted out a
					luncheon from which I could not get away. However I learned something about the
					Church.God give me a steady mind and increase me in wi sdom and understanding through
					Jesus Christ Our LordAmenI went out to Dicheresous this
					evening. She is a lovely lady and I am very happy to have met her.350 SATURDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1922On board S S Watson- en tld
					tubnNow I am in another home for a while. God grant that I may reach Seward and get
					into Nenana for Christmas Day. Through Jesus Christ Our Lord.Amen.This morng I rusl d in about and
					got a good many things I needed. Yesterday I bought a suit and an extra pair of
					britches. I also bought a 22 gun but no shells a few other things brown. It will run my bill nearly to
						$10000 which worries me. I felt I had to have them.Bp. Cremont is on board and we sit at the table together. He is very well indeed.
					He tells me Fr. Jetty is very ill. I am sorry.The Bp. told me Jenkins is not coming in as he wants too much money. I am glad. It was
					interesting to hear his remarks on DraneI am going in with a happy heart and I am very eager to get a great deal done. God be with me.SUNDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1922 351On Board S.S. Watson.This has been a very pleasant day in many ways. It is awfully hard to keep from
					sleeping and I have so much work to do.This has been a gray day save for an hour or so after breakfast when it was very
					beautiful. I am trying to study a bit and I want to write a good deal but I find
					it right hard to get at it. I am short about 100 Christmas cards and do not know
					just what to do about sending the100 I have unless I finish out with
					letters which is impossible.I hope every hour that I shall be able to reach Nenana. I hope there will be a
					freight train or some-thing. It may be I can get far enough to have Joe meet me
					with the dog team.352 MONDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1922On Board SS Admiral WatsonWe came into Ketchikan this evening at 6:30 and stayed 2 1/2 hours. Our watches
					go back an hour so we left at 8:00 It was very pleasant to visit with Miss
					Bridgeman. She assure me that she will not marry Dr Kirby. I
					hope she will not and I am beginning to gain a little confidence in her.I had quite a long talk with Miss Mcloneux about the work. She is much in need and somewhat
					discouraged. God grant that our work prosper there I humbly beseech thee. For
					the sake of thy Dear Son Jesus Christ Our Lord Amen.The trip thus far has been interesting The people I have met pleasant. The
					scenery is superb.I have written a good many cards and Miss M. has given me several. I hope to get
					them all off at Juneau.29 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1922 353On Bd. S.S. A. Watson.At 1:00 am we left Juneau. I mailed about 200 cards and have 17 yet to get off.
					They are less important ones. I found some very nice ones here. We reached here
					about nine o'clock and Bp. Crunont and a Roman Priest drove me up to Fr. Ricer is at the
					Church. A few minutes there and I returned to get off the rest of my cards.It is very interesting and plant to visit these coast towns and see the work in
					them. I wish we could do more than we are doing.A large number of our crew have left us here a few go on to Cordova Valdez Seward
					and a group of fine fellows go on to Rodcak and thereabouts to the oil fields they do not know how
					they will like it. I hope all goes well with them. I think it is Kategacac where they are going. God
					be with my precious boy Moses through the Christmas season.354 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1922On Board SS Admiral Watsona good part of this rough day has been spent in bed. I have not greatly enjoyed
					it for I really thought I could possibly not be sea sick. It is miserable. I am
					worried about my sermon and distressed about train connections. I find uny thrid dwelling on it very
					considerably. If it may please God to grant me that Blessing and desire of my
					head I shall be most happy and Indeed most thankful.We came into Yukutal this evening about 10:00 and while moosed to the dock I was able to eat
					a bit which I think I shall be able to keep down. We have 23 good hours from
					here to Cordova but they will not all be rough.About every body on board is really sea sick and some of the officers and sailors
					will be glad to be in smooth water again.THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1922 355Cordova. On Bd. Ad. WatsonWe arrived here about 11:00 o'clock and set our watches back an hour.Evely Houk met me much to my
					surprise and it was a pleasure to see her. I like her. She certainly looked
					beautiful. I hardly know why she is going out when she is married or to be
					married. Maybe she lost her job I don't know.Prospects for going to Nenana for Christmas look very dark but I know that all
					things are possible with God and if His will I shall be able to make it. God
					grant that I may. I shall wire Lansdown in the morning to see if he can arrange it or find out
					the possibilities.Tomorrow night will find me in Seward God willing. Into thy hands Dear Lord I
					commend my Spirit. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.I phoned Singer and found him
					most pleasant.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.356 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1922Seward.We got in here tonight about 8:00 o'clock. I find that there is no freight
					train before Sunday morng which will be overtaken in all probability by the
					passenger at Curry, and it will
					hardly be worth my while to take it when I go over to "Tunnel" to see
					Petty: I am anxious to see him and may go though I hate to leave here unless
					there is no one who asks for a service.I sent a wireless to Saurdown
					from the boat which cost 14 cents a word- $210 in all for the
					charge for the address etc. He did not answer me and I am sorry. I may have to
					contact Mysily to wait until
					Monday. I hate to travel on Christmas day and I hate not to have a communion
					Service on Christmas day God Grant that I may. God Grant that I may make it to
					Nenana if it be Thy Holy will Though
						X Our LordAmenSee pg. 146SATURDAY, DECEMBER 23, 1922 357Seward, Alaska.This has been a most remarkable day and night. There was never one like it in my
					life before. If I had red ink I would write these pages with it.I was asked to speak at a community affair to night for the children. I did not
					want to do so but felt I should. All morning I worried about it when I should
					have been writing letters. This afternoon I made up my mind I would not let it
					worry me. Word came to me that the Barndollars lived in town so imme-diately
					called them up. Martin came down and I went out with him to their home which is
					cozy and lovely. We had tea and a bit of wine then came into dinner at the
					Resturant after which we went to the community tree, I was in agony the whole
					time though until I found there was to be no speaking. After the affair we
					danced until midnight. I enjoyed it very much.There was a young man there by the name of Leo Speybrook and his frinse whom he brought over from
					Hope. Mable A Isaacson They were to be married on Sunday. The Barndollars and
					others prevailed on them to be married tonight. After the dance we358 SUNDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1922MONDAY, DECEMBER 25, 1922 359360 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 26, 1922WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 27, 1922 361362 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1922FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1922 363364 SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1922SUNDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1922 365366 MEMORANDAA wire came from Dr Burke to night as follows.Hearty congratulations to you and Moses on his quest for an education. Hope he
					will consider serving here as minister to his people. Would like to hear his
					plans. All send love. Grayton
					BurkeA letter also came from him in which he given following data.Moses Cruikshank.Born January 15th 1904at Camp on Black River75 miles from Fort YukonBaptised January 30th, 1904Illigitimate son of Alice MonMarried to John CruikshankWas spunter at home of babies
					birthFather unknown (probably Daniel Coagire) (from Rumour)When I read these words that Moses is illi-gitimate my heart sunk with pity and
					sorrow for the boy. I knew it was probably so but hoped it was not. Just the
					same God loves him even more than I do and will carry him on through life in
					peace and saftyMEMORANDA 367368 MEMORANDAStandard Diary No. 307To duplicate this Diary for the year 1923 order EARLY of your Stationer.After Dec. 1 editions are sometimes out of print.M............................................................Please send the agove Standard Diary toName.........................................................Address......................................................ASK YOUR STATIONER TO SHOW YOU THESEStandard Diaries for 1923[The following portion of the page contains three
					illustrations of advertised diaries.]DESIGNED FOR BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL MEN. COMPACT AND CONVENIENT. DIARY AND
					CASH ACCOUNT, MEMORANDA, OR ENGAGEMENTS.RATES OF POSTAGE.Official at time of printing. As changes are expected inquire at Post Office.United States and Possessions, Canada, Mexico, Cuba, and Shanghai, China.First class (letters, etc.) . . . . . . per ounce 2cSecond " (newspapers, periodicals) . . . . 4 " 1cThird (all circulars and miscellaneous printed matter. Miscellaneous printed
					matter over 4 lbs. sub-ject to 4th class rates) . . . . . 2 " 1cFourth " (merchandise, books, etc.) see Parcel Post.Registration Fee (extra postage) . . . . . . . 10cSpecial Delivery ( " " ) . . . . . . . 10cPostal Cards (reply cards 2c) . . . . . . . 1cLocal or Drop Letters (where no free delivery) . . . . 1cPostal Savings Bank (inquire at P.O.)MONEY ORDERS. - For sums not exceeding $2.50, three cents; over $2.50 to $5, five
					cents; over $5 to $10, eight cents; $10 to $20, ten cents; over $20 to $30,
					twelve cents; over $30 to $40, fifteen cents; over $40 to $50, eighteen cents;
					over $50 to $60, twenty cents; over $60 to $75, twenty-five cents; over $75 to
					$100, thirty cents.REFORWARDING. - Letters will be forwarded from one post office to another upon
					the written request of the person addressed, without additional charge; but
					unclaimed packages cannot be returned unless return postage is guaranteed.PARCEL POST, for United States and Possessions.(Inquire at Post Office.)Owing to frequent changes in rates, weights, etc., we deem it impracticable to
					attempt to give accurate information.Postage to Foreign Countries.Letters for Canada, Cuba, Mexico, British Isles, Newfound-land, Republic of
					Panama, U.S. Postal Agency at Shanghai, China; Leeward Islands, Winward Islands,
					Bahamas, British Honduras, Dominican Republic, Trinidad, Dutch West Indies,
					Dutch St. Martins, Barbadoes, British Guiana, and New Zealand . . . . . . . .
					per ounce 2cPostal Cards (reply cards, 4c) . . . . . . . . 2cNewspapers and printed matter (weight limited to 4 lbs. 6 oz,) 2 ozs. 1cCommercial papers (every additional 2 ozs. 1c) first 10 ozs. or fraction 5cRegistration Fee (extra postage) . . . . . . . 10cReply Coupons (to prepay return letter) . . . . . 6cParcel Post (inquire at P.O.) . . . . . . per lb. 12cMoney Orders (inquire P.O.)Counting=House Calendar.1923.[Back Cover]