Page 1

Hd. Qrs. 1st Div. Cav. Corps Army of the Ohio Marysville e. Tenn. Nov 5, 1863 - Dear Father I have not written you since the 27th ult., I think, the day before our evacuated of Soudon. Soudon was evacuated by orders from Washington in fact it was on the wrong (South) side of the River for us unless we intended to push and hold our lines to Athens, Cleveland & which the force under Burnside would not allow of. On the 28th Brig. Genl. Sauders offered me the position of Ssst. Adjt. Genl. on his Staff in which capacity I have been acting since that time. the rank is that of Capt. & the appointment comes from the President. I inclose a copy of Genl. Sauders letter to Adjt. Genl. Thomas requesting my appointment. Senators Howard & Chandler will, before this reaches you, probably be in Washington will not you ask them to see me through. Such applications are apt to stick somewhere before reaching the Pres. & if they will get at the matter it will go. Uncle Howard

Page 2

can help me if he will. Ash Adjt. Genls. are now appointed & assigned to some Brig. Div. &c & I presume the pressure for them at Nashv is not small. The position is well suited to my tastes is a constant scool for improvement & although I can hold it as "acting" still while acting I want the pay & rank. I have been on detached duty for a long time - Staff duty all the time - & acting as Capt & know I want the rank & pay for my expenses are increasing. Please look at the matter & do what , in your judgment, is advisable. Brig. Gen. White did not want me to leave him & told me to inform my freinds as much- Genl. Sauders says that White gave me a glorious recommendation to him. This is all very satisfactory to me & must be gratifying to you at home. He told Genl. Sauders that he would not release me unless he would push through my appointment to Capt. & A.A.G.- We are now south of Knoxville about 16 miles & have the enemy across the Little Tenn. r. is some considerable force. The river is fordable at certain ferries where the Enemy in small foraging parties

Page 3

cross at times. In order to gobble up a few prisoners Genl. Sauders sent out, very Early this A.m., a detachment under Lt. Col Adams comdy. 1st Ky. Cav. He reached a ford on Little Tenn. R. about 18 miles from here about daylight this morning & secreted his command for the enemy to cross - Soon a regiment came over & he charged them, putting them to fligh back across the river. Now the river is approached here by a narrow cut through the bank & as they were obliged to swim part of the way, the got crowded up in this cut. Col. Adams took some 40 prisoners & killed or drowned at least that number. He said it was the saddest sight he ever saw & does not want to see its like again. our men were right on the bank & in their rear close on them- pouring volley upon volley upon the poor fellows struggling in the water upon their horses - their cries were piteous in the extreme - Our men at the same time were exposed to a very sever fire from a force of the enemy across the river but strange as it may seem lost none in killed & wounded & but two horses killed. We captured 3 officeres & 7 non-com.

Page 4

officers in the lot of prisoners- There are 3 Brigades in this command Col Wolfords one of them - the 8th Mich is in the 2nd Brig. Wolford is such a noted caracter that I cut his signature out of my receipt book to send you. Some time when I have more leisure I must tell you more about him. This is a pleasant little town - the country arouns is very fine. I should have written home before but saw two or three officers who were going through who would give you the news & then I have been & am very busy with my new position, studying into it &c. Col Wormer has gone home on leave. Col Stockton looks poorly & is at Knoxville. i saw Capt Buck & Lt. Eastman in Hospital at Knox. they'r wounds are doing finely- Excuse this poorly written letter for it is late. I am very well, in excellent spirits - & only hope you are so at home. Love to you all your ever aff son Watson

