STANDARDNo. 307DIARY1923Counting-House Calendar.1923.THESTANDARD DIARYFOR SALE BY ALL STATIONERSPublished byTHE STANDARD DIARY COMPANY2 MONDAY, JANUARY 1, 1923 1NenanaA Happy New Year to all the world. God Grant Thy Blessings on thy work here through this coming
year. Here is much I am eager to do. Grant that I may be able to accopmlish it for thee Through
Jesus Christ Our Lord.I have written a few letters today and attended to some work about the palce. This morning I had
an early celebration with Miss Wright present. Please God I shall be able to have a celebration more
often through the work this year. I am going to have an office of installation for time of the boys
on Sunday week and have them for servers. When Scott
comes he can act as LayReader. We must have some vestments.This evening we had a dance which lasted until 2:00 a.m. They all seemed to have a good time.
These children do enjoy dancing.God I pray thy tender Blessings on those loved ones at home on those of my friends and my enemies
and especially for Thy God of Grace and wisdom on me that I may do thy works through Jesus Christ
Our Lord Amen.2 TUESDAY, JANUARY 2, 1923Nenana -8 at 10:40This has been a busy and short day. We had breakfast at 10:30 and then I wrote a bit and attended
to some business.This afternoon I have looked over the school supplies and tried to figure out what the children
will have for it is time before Scott comes. It will be a difficult matter.This evening I talked with John Oulette about the new Mission and Some boys for it. I hope I
shall be able to get them out and down here for a reasonable sum. It may be possible to get them
done for six or seven hundred dollars. I hope so and I hope the Bishop may see fit to have it done.
I wish I could. There are so many things I want to do and there is so much to be done. God Grant thy
Blessings and Thy hep I beseech Thee Through Jesus Christ Our Lord.A big mail came in tonight. In it a check for fifty dollars from Mrs Vaughan.
Selma, Ala. I appreciate the response. The following text is written sideways on the left side of the
page.It was distressing to hear of a ruadu on the Bp.
today the Conductor killed.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side of the
page.See pg 20.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1923 3Just what we can ask George for in a question I hope it will be amicable with out a lawsuit.Mr More the game warden said he wants to help illiminate the liquor among the
natives. He was very kind and interested.Miss Warren of the Regusters Office wants to see Bp. Rowe. I hardly understand her attitude. I
suppose she is sincere enough.I ordered 10 boxes of #4 Shells for Arthur and Kestsler is going to to take them up for him with the guns.I left some fish and a fur robe with Mr Bean and will take down 10 boxes of #6's which the
N.C. was kind enough to exchange for #2's for me.4 THURSDAY, JANUARY 4, 1923FRIDAY, JANUARY 5, 1923SATURDAY, JANUARY 6, 1923SUNDAY, JANUARY 7, 1923 7Nenana The following text has three slashes on top of a portion of the
paragraph.This morning I was up early for the Celebration at 7:30. There were several out. Solar served.
I am very happy to have the boys for servers, and I am happy to be able to have the celebration on
Wednesdays now.The preceding text has three slashes on top of a portion of the
paragraph.I had a service for "admitting a Server" and admitted Joe, Silas, and Paul at the 11:00
service today. The Coghills were up for the service. The school house was so cold I was not able to
preach and I am sorry.This afternoon I spent most of the afternoon with the Coghills It is very pleasant to have them
up. I am going to try to visit more down town this winter. I should like to do something for those
people. It is rather different teaching all days. I visited in the village tonight. I wish too I
could do something for these poor people.8 MONDAY, JANUARY 8, 1923TUESDAY, JANUARY 9, 1923 910 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1923THURSDAY, JANUARY 11, 1923 1112 FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1923SATURDAY, JANUARY 13, 1923 13Nenana -1 snowingI am sorry I have neglected my diary for so many days. These days have been full since I have
been teaching school and I have found it a bit hard and almost impossible Sometimes to write it.
Even thought it takes but a few minutes I shall try not to neglect it again.The sad word came today of the death of Dear Mildreds son. The first death in our family it is
hard to believe that the week has come. It was a
disappoint ment hard for any precious sister to have
Dear Mildred I know she has greatly suffered. God be with her and bless the soul of that dear infant
in paradise. My heart goes out to Mildred and Bob in their dis-appointment and sorrow. How pleasant
would have been that family of two boys and two girls. God bless and help them through all the days
of their lives.14 SUNDAY, JANUARY 14, 1923Nenana. -10This morning the first month anniversary of the death of Mildreds Infant child she bore in pain
and sorrow I had a requiem mass. God bless them in their sorrow and today the soul of that Infant
child, through the mercy of God rest in peace.I had service this morning and there were quit a few there. This Evenig after hearing a
confession I had service in Indian. There were several there and It was a very nice service save
that the church was cold.God I pray for all for whom I ought to pray and beseech thy love and mercy on those at home
especially. I each once what things I ought to do in
regard to thy work. I want to do thy will not my own. Bless Arthur and his wife in their work Help me to do thy will through Jesus Christ Our
Lord.AmenMONDAY, JANUARY 15, 1923 15NenanaI find it very difficult to accomplish much in the after-noons and evenings when there are so
many interruptions. There is much to be done, much I want to do and much I must do. God help me to do these things.Miss Cotchettt is ill with a sore throat and I have to take all the children at the school
house.16 TUESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1923NenanaMiss Blacknall took the younger children at the school this today. When I return from Salchaket whoever takes the school with the small children
must take Scorge and Nellie and I will have all the classes in the morning so I shall have time for
my letters and for some study for myself. I must do it.Then too I am going to try to get some wood cut and the logs. God Grant I beseech thee that I may
be able to do the work that lies before me. I want to do it.3 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 1923 17Nenana. +2School went fairly well today. I find the children are somewhat behind in their tables in
arith.More interruptions this afternoon so I got no letters written. I went down to see Dick Hearne and
it was a pleasure to see him. He in-quired after MosesThis Evenig after prayers I had Miss Wright and the children over for waffles. They seemed to
Enjoy them. Miss Blacknalls waffle iron seems to work very well.I have dicided it will not be possible to go to the Crowning this week. The wood is about gone
and I have no way to get more in save to buy it and have it hauled at rice.I shall probably just have to walk from Fairbanks to Salchaket. That is all I see. I cannot spend
much money How I shall walk it in a day I do not know.18 THURSDAY, JANUARY 18, 1923Nenana +25 today a rise of 45 degreesThis is most remarkable weather for this time of year. I should not mind if we had no more cold
weather at all.I bought 11 cords of wood today at $1000 per cord. I hate to pay so much, but
see no help for it. I hope I shall be able to buy a horse but I hate to call on the Bishop for the
money. It will take about $25000 I am afraid. I am also having John Martin cut 50
cords of green-wood at 350 per cord.I am now having classes in the morning. I hope I shall be able to finsh up my correspon-dence
very soon and get on to the dogs for the New Mission.God grant thy blessings on my loved ones at home. My dear Moses and Johnnie, and on my work here
through Jesus Christ our Lord.Amen.FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 1923 19Fairbanks Highest wind I have ever seen +31The train came in at 7:00 o'clock but left Nenana at 3:45 a quick trip Joe went to the
picture show and I tried to find Mr Clark but was unable to.It was a pleasure to see MrsBearmook and Mrs McNear. Joe came
in later. When we got to bed it was late.I wrote to Mother in Earl Fosters room I wish I could write lots of letters. I shall do so before
very long.We are stopping at the Alaska Hotel. The Old "Shaw House" I think of Howard meeting
Margaret here such romances as have occured I suppose the walls could tell many a tale.Joe is going to fine on The Trail I think God be
with us.See pg.20 SATURDAY, JANUARY 20, 192318 Mile House.My heart and mind goes back to a year ago when I was here with Moses. God bless him I beseech
thee.This a.m. we were up at 4:20 to et ready to come
up here. The wind was so high that we decided not to come until later in the day. I settled up a
good deal of business. Had a long talk with Mr Watson about the Mission grounds.
He says that it is impossible for us to do any thing with the Comission as there was no claim made
for it with in 90 days after 18th July 1918 when the notice was published by the
Comission I am sorry for we have no standing at all.I will write the land office in Fbk's asking what wanned of proceedure must be taking for securing the location of the Missi-on Watson will
take it up with the Sec. of the Interior. I hope this is the right thing to do. We must have some
settlement. before we build. I hope in doing it I can get more ground for we need it.I saw Mr Clark and he is going thon-sult
Gury Irevew and Hogan to arrange a reasonable settlement on Maggie.SUNDAY, JANUARY, 21, 1923 21SalchaketJoe and I arrived here about 2:30 this P.M. after a rather hard trip up from the 18 mi house.
After the potlatch we had service which in some ways was msatrip factory. Joe could not seem to interpret and was rather stubborn about it. I
allowed John & Titus John and Laura receive because I
felt it would help them. God grant it may.I am very much disappointed in the way in which the people have acted and when they do as they
have I do not feel like helping them very much. I hope Bp. Rowe comes this way, from the
Crossing.Titus John has made himself chief without speaking to me. I am sorry they are trying to take
things in their own hands.SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1923 35Nenana +33 windy.This is most remarkable weather for this time. I am thankful to almighty God for his goodness to
me. If it were cold I do not know how we should live for I have had such a time getting wood. Dry
wood is next to impossible at $10 per cord. I have a chance of selling my dogs tomorrow morning for
$20 a piece. Five of them will give me $10000 with wich I hope it will be
possible to get a team of muels. Please God I shall be able to get them.Capt. & Mrs Jones were up for dinner today. Their attitude has changed
toward us I am glad to say and I am thankful. He is going to try to get the muels for me I hope I
can get them tomorrow. God I am thankful that there is the hope of getting them.I had service this morning and in Indian this Evenig. God grant thy Blessings on all that I do
and help me to fill up my time as I should.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 1923 115Betty Lowe272 SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1923Betty Love&Sonny BeaselySonny BeaselyBetty LoveSonnyBeaselyBetty LoveBettyCloudy & cold - grate fires 3 for Mass 7:00276 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3 2 1923 4Mass this morning was especially helpful But the temperature of the chapel made me realize it
would not be long until heat would be needed and I know not from where it will come. The morning
mail brought a letter from Mrs Hagerty saying she thought they might soon return
south from Ninnpy so I look for her in a week or so.
She wants the appartment upstairs and I offered it for $4000 dollars and rather
hope she may take it. Not to Gladstone Roger a letter of encouragement also accepted an invitation
to speak to the service Leagues of Macons on the
subject of Alaska on the 20th October.A week ago tonight was one of the happiest of my life. But today and tonight ahve been very
discouraging and most of this evening I have spent in tears. It is so much easier to doubt than to
believe. But believing brings infinite joy and peace to the soul. No letter or word from Robert
disappointed me more than I ever anticipated I could be diappointed. I have read his last letters
several times over. Drove Bertha over to Atlanta today - but did not Enjoy the trip as I felt so
very miserable. Feel that the day has gone by with nothing accomplished. Save perhaps a work of
Forth.368 MEMORANDADan for work $15000 10th Dec.