Page 1

Poland, Ohio, Feb 27th 1865 Col O P Temple: Dr Sr; Yours of the 14th Inst. came in due time. In the same mail with this I send a note to Perez Dickinson Esq soliciting his opinion as to the best desposal to be made of my deposit. You will, therefore take up the deposit, at such time as you deem most favorable for me and convert the same into "greenbacks" or retain it in Southern currency as you and Mr dickinson may think it the wiser course. I send you notes against Dr Doak James Wil-

Page 2

son and John Sloan with Robert McIntyre, surety This note I had not by me when I wrote you last. Of course this settles the whole matter and no testimony of Col Craig's is needed, for I suppose what Confederate courts or authorities did is not regarded. The proof of my deed of trust may be difficult if Col Craig dies. I do not know as the Rev James Wilson is in your region, but knew of his going there some two years ago. He and his son John owned some landed property in East Knoxville, at the time I left. It is a small

Page 3

amount, and I do not want to press the old gentleman with it. He is a good old man that I would not trouble for ten times the amount. I am not surprised at the progress of anti-slavery sentiment in the South, and rejoice over it, beyound the power of language to express, cheifly for the bearing it would have upon the educational and religious interests of that region: and of one thing we may rest assured, that for all persons and parties concerned it is always expedient to do right;to be found in harmony

Page 4

with the one unchanging laws of the Supreme Ruler; and the time will soon come in the south when the general if not the universal opinion of Southern slave-holders (that were) will be that slavery is one of the highest crimes against natural and revealed law. I think that ten years hence, notwithstanding all the present desolation, the Southern states will be more prosperous and richer than ever before. If my life is spared I purpose to visit Knoxville next July. Brownlow I suppose will be elected by a large majority. Will not Ramsey as well as Sperry be tried for treason? I remain Yours Truly M C Bu

