Page 1

Memphis Nov 1st 1865. Tuesday Morning Hon Amos Gould, My Dear Sir, Your letter dated Oct 20th came to hand yesterday having been quite diligent in its search after me as it was directed to Johnsonville whither it went by way of Nashville -- thence returned to Louisville-via Nashville-via Cairo-to Memphis I was very glad indeed to hear from you & am glad to be able to reply for only a week ago at Jackson a couple of soldiers came down street on a full run & I turned a corner, lest some mischief might happen but the horses also turned & one of them whirled & dashed right over me in an instant, & left me senseless. The Surgeons were soon there & found me all right as no bones were broken save that probably one or two ribs are loosened. We left Jacksonville on Thursday night & arrived here on Friday PM at 3 Oclock.

Page 2

Since then we have been waiting for orders, & rumor says this is the day for Mustering us out, but we must wait till the higher officials are ready, & I presume it will be to day or to-morrow. Great anxiety is felt by both Officers & men, & many are impatient. I do not blame them, for they have waited long under most painful suspense. Now, we feel that we are soon to be citizens, for we are here under orders for Muster-out. We were at Jacksonville about 5 weeks. It is a wealthy & very beautiful place said to be the handsomest town in Tennessee. But the people are very different from those of E Tennessee. They are proud, haughty, Aristocratic, and are to day as rebellious in spirit as they were Four years ago. Bitterness of feeling exists to a degree which is really surprising, & they seem to wonder why Daviss should have so failed, for there being no papers for them to read, they are yet as ignorant of the true state of affairs as though they had lived in Greenland. But they

Page 3

know the Confederacy has ended -- somehow; and they do not know on whom to spit their venom. When I went from Memphis to Jackson, I think I would come with the bounds of truth to say that I heard "God damn the Nigger," "God damn the Abolitionists" -- "God damn the Yankees," not less than 500 times, most scornfully & bitterly repeated. Memphis too is a very determined rebel town, & I think there will yet be very serious trouble, for they are inventing all sorts of ways to prove that "the Nigger wont work unless he is made to work." They will prove it, and great disaster will follow. But I hope soon to see you, & we will talk over these matters. Yesterday was 6 months since we were paid and as we will be paid in Michigan soon I must ask you to do me the kindness to send immediately to my wife Twenty Five Dollars, for I know they have long been in great want & I will pay you as soon as we are paid. I hear that Col Trowbridge has commenced business in Knoxville.

Page 4

I ought to have been at Kingston on the 1st of September, but I had no control over Uncle Sam. Kindest regards to all. As ever I am Most truly Yours Henry Cherry. H Cherry Nov 1 1865

