DailyReminder1919385Calendar1919The StandardDaily Reminder1919For Sale by all Stationers.The Office Outfitters Fielder & Allen Co. Atlanta, U.S.A.18Saturday, Jan. 18, 1919[The dairy pages for Jan. 1 through Jan. 18 are blank and therefore
not included.]19Sunday, Jan. 19, 1919Up at 6:00 AM.built fires; started breakfast; had morning prayers as usual.Glanced at morning
paper only to find that Bolshirvikes are seeking Wilsons life. attended the Epiphany at 10:30
Communion Chiefly becuase Mr. Kruteh officially invited me. Dr. Boyd preached good sermon on
"Purity" Virtue of ancients was courage present day it is "Purity" all nature seeks it.
not satisfied with out it. Mrs Miller out for dinner. Called on Roy. Epiphany at 730. Read the
service, Was asked to talk on "My observation of Religious life among soliders." Walked home with
Dr. Boyd. Told me of his son Miles preculiar actions I am convinced that Miles it crazy. I have
decided to go to Walters tommorrow20Monday, Jan. 20, 1919Up at 5:30 started fires had usual morning prayer. Filled coalhouses, baskets, and buckets to
save mamma trouble while away Met Hood and Karl, School chess while in town. Left for Oakdale at 10:30 a.m. Reached there 12:30 walked to
Dearmount 3 mi and up the mountain to Walters 2 mi with heavy basket and suit case thought of
crelideacon ; How he would enjoy ascending "High
Top" with me Lena was starting down Mt. with mule
and wagon after Wlater. He comes down every afternoon on #5 from Katresi . in talking with misssm
I told especially of God's mercy time - urged them to be baptized we had prayers and retired P. 21Tuesday, Jan. 21, 1919"Hi U plenty talk" until we went to work in the field Hauling manure to field and returned with
fodder (I tumbled off of wagon head first) We Killed and cleaned a hog. Talked of Lena's education
at dinner time. Now that they have a saddlehorse Lena and Walter can ride to wallthung to school. It seems that Lena is almost contented
to stay at home. She likes out of door life, but badly needs school and all a city offers. Walters
work in the coal mine is very streneous, dangerous, and hard for him to stand up everyday. Can not
last long at it. Maybe a full days rest will help him a bit. Prayers and to bed at 10:00 of the
clock.22Wednesday, Jan. 22, 1919Went to Wastburg immediately after breakfast. Saw Aunt Lee and her son John. Julia we did not to see to talk with Aunt Lee very much resembles
mamma Passed by the Old "Winton Mill" or the Love Mount. Luusker is about the most beautiful place I ever saw. Should love for the archdeacon to see it. Find that Mrs. Duncan's stepdaughter is
a school teacher of 4 years. effescen Hope Lena
& walter can reap advantage for they are worthy of the best. This after noon Lena went to
Dearmount for mail & Walter & I hauled wood. after brought in rest of fodder. No prospect
for coal. Good supper; prayer and to bed.23Thursday, Jan. 23, 1919A dark dreary day, a sick calf; & sick horse with nothing especially accomplished. we put
shoes on horse and raised the gate in the cow shed along with a few other little things. Mrs. Duncan
Lidia, & all the little Duncans' and Blacks came up. Played cards for a while. I believe my
brother doesn't like callers. Lena went for the mail and brought me a letter from Bra.a happy and the  we marked the calf today Rt ear smooth to crop. 1 under slit. left ear smooth crop; 2 slits.
Tonight the ears near still bleeding. Calf had intestinal or bowel trouble sort of hemmorage. We
gave it first coffee & castor oil. Then tonight coffee & 2 eggs. Prayers with Walter Jr. and
then with family and to bed.24Friday, Jan. 24, 1919Up late for farmers, but after a good breakfast we cares for the stock and hauled some wood. Made
some Kodak pictures of Walters family & myself. This afternoon a happy thought struck us why
shouldn't we save Pulling & hauling anymore wood. The mountains all around us us have coal why
shouldn't this one one have some. Walters & I gathered up the tools & went out to prospect
for prospectives when we got tired digging one hole in the ground we started another. Finally we
began to doubt our minds instead if the ground and at Pearls advice we quit & fed the stock.
after a good supper & prayeres we went to bed.25Saturday, Jan. 25, 1919Hauled in big load of rich pine. Walter made a handle for his coal axe. Worked from inside of
hickory stick. Spoke to Mrs. Layman and Albert as they drove by. My last morning passed hurridly.
Harder to leave the children and all. Such utter proverty I have never seen. a stream of sympathy
pours out of my heart for my loving brother and his family. How I wish I could
help them. I rode down to theedge of the mountains. Then Walter & I walked down to Dearmount. We
looked into a coal mine in which Walter had worked and found own prospects in his place more
hopeful. We kissed each other good by and again I told him of God's mercies to me and how that
my success in life was through my trust in God. He turned away in tears, then turned back &
cried "Robert come back again.' I told him I would. I have never spent as sad an hour nor was one
ever as full of sorrow at that hour that followed this incident. I heard and saw many things that
moment. I know something of his feeling & the sorrow of his heart. He has laboured so hard and
earnestly & success does not come. I am sure God saw his tears & knows the secrets of his
heart. "a broken and contrite heart he will not despise." I shall spend every effort to help him
& God is with me. work hard tonight. Reached
home to find several letters. annoucement of Ralph Milkins engagement; Elizabeth Strickins marriage;
Frank Flakendeshipreturn to college MIT; and the
archdeacons some interest in one whom he loves or who loves him. Bp. Gailor preaches tomorrow26Sunday, Jan. 26, 1919Up at 5:30, Morning Prayer. 7:30 Service at St Johns. Bp. Gailor there. asked me if I was
returning to service & said he would be glad to
help me. Walked home for breakfast. Returning to Church met Sister Hellen. There came to my mind
"Compassion mmr devout & pure. sd her steadfast & demure. Bp. G. preached on "Wist ye
not that I must be about my father's business." Every vocation in life a work for the father. &
our mwm to & seek diligently to perform our
duty. He spoke affectionatly of Pres. Roosevelt this afternoon I sent my insurance $6.20 payment to
Bureau of War Risk Insurance. I was Dpt. awash DL for 3 mo. amt $2010. Took mamma to Yephihany to hear Bp. G Preached on war, Democracy &
religion, missionary Spirit Chineneise war on God's
& did not He he for in door27Monday, Jan. 27, 1919Up at 4:30 prayers, bath & breakfast. Practiced 5 hours on typewritter during the day. In
town for a couple of hours and to Mildred's for dinner. Miss Pearl Moncum finally decided to stay. Had for Brs' sake her own Rose & mammas She
is a congenial and pleasant girl. Returned from Mildred's to find letter from Albert Sherman written
at lauerrville France Dec 26th. Had just returned
from hospital in Bordeaux. Spoke of Bp. Perries service in near by Trou. Read first copy of Good be CO75 alumni association "Lest We Forget" am working
out pretty well with typewritter. Hope to accomplish it while at home. Think after many tries.
Prayers & to bed early.28Tuesday, Jan. 28 1919Up at 4:30 and after breakfast 3 hours practice on the typewritter 6 hours all day. More working
on the 3rd lesson. Believe I am goign to accomplish (DV) in the 2 weeks time. Cannot obtain great
speed but can get the principles of it. Mamma and I called on Ms. Nessler. She not at home. We went
to Mrs. Forotes. Found her house on 3rd st rented
for $18 per mo. & will sell for rent for $2200. Cheap enough and a very nice home. She has a
stove for which she paid $1200. May sell it when she breaks up house keeping. Prayers and to
bed.29Wednesday, Jan. 29, 1919Up at 4:30, prayers and after breakfast practiced on typewritter. Went down to Mildreds and
helped her in the yard. Had dinner there Mildreds home seems like home to me. I am home about 3:00
O'clock (met Mrs Comfort on the way) and practiced for a couple hours. Mildred drove me to town
about 5:00 o'clock. Bought me an officers cap for $3.00 a $.50 cay Also bought 1 ream typewritter paper to use for correspondence from So. School Supply
Co. for $1.50. 500 sheets. after supper practiced an hour. Prayers in preparation for communion.30Thursday, Jan. 30, 1919Up at 4:30, built fires and started breakfast. 5:00 to 5:30 prayers 5:30 to 6:00 wrote diary of
previous day. 6:00 to 6:30 helped with breakfast. 6:30 to 7:00 got coal etc. 7:00 to 10:00 practice
on typewritter. 10:00 to 12:00 fixed wire on shed for chickens. Drove went to town. Sought to find Mr. NH Hillard about the house. Went to
church for quiet hour of prayer. Met Edith Honeyman & Elizabeth Walnut two very lovely girl
friends, Went to the movies. Purchased some wire & staples 5 yds of 2 in mesh poultry line @ 15
cts per yd! Came home & after supper (and a good one) Mother & I went to Roy & Ruth's.
Prayers & to bed ar 9:30.31Friday, Jan. 31, 1919Usual morning prayer at usual time. Practiced four hours this morning then trotted off down to
Mildreds. Borrowed a 700th. roller from Mr. Morgan. at Golf Course to roll down M's driver. Also
planted sod. Practiced more and got up the coal after I returned. This evening we all went to the
show at the Byou very good 3 chaps there good singers Mr. Haskell not. man also good. The Russians situation looks serious American may have take
apart. The Evening Sentinal Records 39,155 Americans dead in war. 14,648 missing and 2,825
Prisoners, Sad to think of. Prayers & bed.32Saturday, Feb. 1, 1919After prayers I had an hours practice before breakfast. This done I cleaned the house, swept,
dusted and oiled the floors. Then worked on the wire fence. Have been quite successful with it.
worked on this most all day. The paper tonight had a picture of the Ep Kaiser in it. Total death written over it. It also mentions that a bounus of
$200 will be given to officers & $50 to enlisted men. Don't know just how this will effect me.
Hope I get soemthing for I need it. The work before me is a busy one. Much to do here at home and at
Mildreds much I must do in preparation for College which opens Feb. 17th33Sunday, Feb. 2, 1919Up at 5:30 prayers and after breakfast made ready for church. Mamma, Papa and, Rosa went with me
to Communion since at St John's. One of special thanksgiving for God's Blessing to me. For granting
merry hearts desire in giving me a Commission and Prayers for His loving mercies through the comming
years of work for Him. Gone over during the afternoon; I wrote several letters; Rosa quite ill.
Mamma & I went to Presbyterian Church with Mildred something wrong Mamma defended the Episcopal Church in a very sevirt & beautiful way. May God grant that may fannnty may come back to the
true Church.RATES OF POSTAGE.Official at time of printing. As changes are expeted inquire at P.O.United States and Possessions, Canada, Mexico, Cuba, and Shanghai, China.First Class (letters, etc.) . . . . . . per ounce 3cSecond " (newspapers, periodicals) . . . 4 " 1cThird " (all circulars and miscellaneous printed matter. Miscellaneous printed matter over 4lbs.
sub-ject to 4th class rates) . . . . . . 2 " 1cFourth " (merchandise, books, etc.) see Parcel PostRegistration Fee(extra postage) . . . . . . . . . 10cSpecial Delivery (" ") . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10cPostal Cards(reply cards 4c).. . . . . . . . . . . 2c Local or Drop Letters (where no free delivery) . . " 2cPostal Savings Bank (inquire at P.O.)MONEY ORDERS.--For sums not exceeding $2.50, 3 cents; over $2.50 to $5, 5 cents; over $5 to $10,
8 cents; over $10 to $20, 10 cents; over $20 to $30, 12 cents; over $30 to $40, 15 cents; over $40
to $50, 18 cnets; over $50 to $60, 20 cents; over $60 to $75, 25 cents; over $75 to $100, 30
cents.REFORWARDING.--Letters will be fowarded from one post office to another upon the written request
of the person addressed, without additional charge; but unclaimed packages cannot be
returned to the sender until stamps are furnished to pay the return postage.PARCEL POST, the United States and Possessions. (Inquire at Post Office)Owing to frequent changes in rates , weights, etc., we deem it impracticable to attemt to give
accurate information.Postage to Foreign Countries.Letters for Canada, Cuba, Mexico, British Isles, Newfoundland, Republic of Panama; U.S. Postal
Agency of Shanghai, China; Leeward Islands; Bahamas; British Honduras; Dutch West Indies, Dutch St.
Martins; Barbadoes, Dutch Guiana and New Zealand . . per ounce 3c " for other countries . . . . . . " 5ceach additional ounce or fraction 3cPostal cards (reply cards, 6c) . . . 3cNewspapers and printed matter . . . 2 ounces 1cSamples merchandise . . . . first 4 " 2cevery additional 2 " 1cCommercial papers . . . .first 10 ounces or fraction 5cevery additional 2 ounces 1cResgistration Fee (extra postage) . . . . . .10cReply Coupons (to prepay return letter) inquire at P.O. Parcel Post (inquire at P.O.) . . . . . . per lb. 12cMoney Orders (inquire at P.O.)Calendar1920[Back Cover]