Page 1

I have hitherto deferred from writing to you from the expectation that a time would arrive when I should have more leisure than I have yet found - But such a time I believe will not arrive during the continuance of the Lectures - Indeed I never viewed my time as worth more than it now is - The Lectures are becoming daily more interesting because they are becoming daily more practical (Doctor Chapman who Lectures on the Theory and Practice of Medicine and Clinical Practice having finished physiology & Pathology has just entered on the causes symptoms & treatment of diseases) - He has adapted a nomeclature & arrangement wholly different from any other no ologist Dr Gosce has got through his speculations on the Modus Operandi & the Quo modo of medicine is beginning to show their application to the removal and prevention of diseases. Instead of the theories of inflammation lemon huge Old with which his first lectures abounded Dr. Gibson Prof. Lus. has begun to exhibit the Principles and Practice of Operative Surgery. And even the speculations for which the Chair Dr. J Jills is distinguished are giving way to the Owing in part to the present pecuniary embarrassment of the Country as well as perhaps to the increasing celebrity of the rival institutions there is in this University a much smaller class than has been for many years -- The speculation of this school as far as I can learn is fast sinking -- The death of Rush and more lately of Niston & the removal of Doctor Physia from the Surgical to the anatomical chair have contributed very much to lessen the fame of this University -- The present however is said to be the best course of lectures that has been delivered since the decease of Rush Dr. C. is propenent of the Theory & Practice & Clinical Practice -- he is every way a very superior man but distinguished especially for the Industry of his research Theraputics -- source of eliscan classification -- Physick is the idol of the City and is indisputablely a very eminent operative surgeon. Butand though his inventions and improvements in this branch of the profession manifest a great degree of ingenuity & inventi I cannot think him equal to many of the professors. He is escepively raecin & austere & supremely self-sufficient - and though an accurate & correct administrator in Anatomy he is very far from a ready one - and as might be expected from one who so long taught Surgery he is constantly takes occasion to introduce that subject in his Anatomical Lectures - And he never fails to mention any improvement he may have suggested in that branch Gore is certainly more learned and independent than any in the school and is perhaps a man of the deepest research - I have said he is the most independent I might have said intrepid - For such

Page 2

indeed he is He has revived the antiquated doctoring of the humoral pathology. To have intimated such an opinion - opposing as it does the writings of Cullen Davison and all the modern authors and the doctrine that has been taught in this school since its first institution requires no ordinary degree of prowess - In justice to Dr. Gore I must add that he does not carry the system to its extreme - I think he has indeed satisfactorily proved that the rejection of that theory in toto was unwarranted - A student of the immortal Rush he very tenacious of the peculiarities of that great teacher - And in mentioning the applications of remidies he always recommends a successence to the Lancet - he often warns us like his preceptor not prescribe for the name but for the symptoms of the disease - Dr He has taken nearly the same arrangement for his lectures that Chapm has in his theraputics - I say nearly for his first grand division differs - He divides the Materia Medica into two grand classes Sedantia & Incitantia - according very well with his views and definition of health & disease Health is what has been said of disease a unit consisting in a harmony of action of all the parts of the animal machine - disease is but an excess or defect of this action This is only a modification of Browns theory Dr. Gibson I hear with a great deal of interest and attention - his remarks are always practical and he illucidates them by a selection of cases of which his extended experience gives him a full supply - on wounds he is much more full and lengthy as well as in absess in which you wel know Dorsey's Surgery which is here called Physicks is very defective. The Students say that Dr Ham the Lecturer on Chemistry is more proper than one that has preceeded him on that chair - He has given a new edition of Hansy with notes by himself but I believe his improvements are inconsiderable Doctor James lectures excite great attention and are certainly very instructive - Rush & Nisten are never mentioned in the Lecture rooms but with the brightest applause and sentiments of the deepest respect - The City was never healthier - the Resurrection man - My own health - (intensity of the weather) - Rather be Hyh chandrenal in H. than in R - Formal for segument - Dr. Ely - (attend six lectures - takes notes Studium give coloms sommisum ) Present my warmest friendship to all & send not of your family & accept the as. of my high respect & esteem J. Ramsey

