Page 1

If not called for within Ten Days return to Mrs. F.A. Butler, Editor and Agent Woman's Missionary Advocate, Nashville, Tenn. Mrs. J.G.M. Ramsay, Knoxville, Tenn.

Page 2

Office of WM Advocate Nashville, Tenn July 4 1883 Mrs J.G.M. Ramsay, My dear Friend, I claim to myslef the privelege of replying to your most kind an dinteresting letter, to Mr. Butler, written for your beloved husband. I cannot bring before my minds eye a more sweet & beautiful picture I have you two -- looking out as you do every morning towards the East for the Sun-rising. The weary years are all passed -- so many of them -- and you are waiting, waiting for a more

Page 3

glorious dawn than any you have ever beheld yet. -- I pray that our Heavenly Father may keep you in his own "everlasting arms" -- and when the great "Sun of Righteousness" appears it may be to you both, a glorious beholding, and in sweet peace of spirit you may "pass over the river, and rest, under the shade of the trees." What a blessed thing is our religion? And what a dark world it would be without it! I have spent my 4th of July here quietly at the Publishing House -- writing, writing all the day long. I was about to start home and said no -- I will not until

Page 4

I write to those dear old people wo will so soon meet my own blessed father and friends, and I must send one more message by them, to that heavenly land. I am sorry to hear of the Doctor's feebleness, & yet how unreasonable it is -- where he is only fading by degrees from our sight as he nears the New Jerusalem. May God continue to bless & shelter him in His love and may you be comforted. As I said to him last Oct. when he said there was nothing now for him to do -- Oh! yes -- There is -- you can wait! And learning to wait is a hard lesson but he learned it long ago. The sun is about to sink in th ewest -- and the

Page 5

sky is bright -- so may it be with you both -- Excuse such a poor hastily written letter -- and remember me affectionately to your daughter. I remain to you and your dear husband -- Affectionately & Truly your friend Sarah F. Butler

