Page 1

July 20th 1874 My dear Uncle I learned, through this morning 's paper, of the sad accident, which has befallen you, & I hasten to express our deep sympathy for you, & an ernest desire for you speedy recovery. My first impulse was to hasten to see you & with willing hands & loving heart, help nurse you, but such could not be conveniently be the case, for Home duties confine me in the City, during the entire summer, Mrs Graham has been

Page 2

quite feeble, for several months, so much so, that a disinclination to attend any Watering Place " for the season, has c aused us to give up our usual move to the Country, My husband feels that his Aunt was left to his care, by her late bus band, May Graham & his first care is for her comfort & pleasure, so we try to while away her tedious hours, by reading & talking to her. The dear old Lady cannot see to read at all, which is a great deprivation but bears up wonderfully, & is

Page 3

generally cheerful, says " She is only waiting ' Till the shadows, Are a little longer grown, " She received your letter, requesting date & items of interest concerning Maj. G 's life, & was gratified, wrote immediately to Mr. Malcolm Graham, a nephew & will have every-thing ready to hand over to Mr. Nelson before long. Ma left Monday for Winchester, to spend several weeks with a niece of hers, she looks thin, pale & lonely beyond expression, but seems resigned & without one murmuring word goes on with Life ' s duties

Page 4

as they occur. Lis Maggie & family are well, I see them every few days, you old friend Mrs. Polk was here last week, inquired very kindly for you & sent her " kindest remembrances. " I would love so dearly to visit Knoxville again, & see you in your own home, but I do not know when such a trip can be taken, as my three children require most of my time, but I do want to show you my boy & let you see that he is deserving the name he bears,

Page 5

He already has " Grand-pa " for his model & brings tears to my eyes by questions, which are hard to answer, Every night as he says his prayer, he asks " must I leave Grand-pa out now Mama, he is where God is & can get every-thing he needs " is nt this sweet comfort. Then my other little Prattler, Libera will correct any-thing her brother does or says which is wrong by saying " Buddu don't you know Grand-pa can hear & see us, & if we do naughty he 'll think we don 't want to come to him. " Thus

Page 6

these little ones keep up daily remembrance on one, who loved them while living & I trust watches over them now that he has gone before. But my own heart " still mourns it's dead idol " & the vacant seat in church, the Eldership with one missing, the vacant chair at the Hearth-stone are each & all painful sights, & on which I try not to look. Well I will stop, my heart gets in my throat & any eyes get blinded so that I am unable to see. All send love, Remember us affectionately to Aunt M & coz. L. & for your own dear seef recive the deep sympathy, warm love,

Page 7

& fervent prayers for your recovery from us all. Good-bye my dear Uncle. God bless you & strengthen you to bear what He has sent upon you prays your devoted niece. Mamie Mc Iver.

