Page 1

Nashville Ten Oct. 9th Dear Sir I returned from Washington City a day or two ago and was pleased to get your letter on my return and was glad to hear that you were all well and so comfortably situated. I think under the circumstances you all have done very well. I visited Washington for the purpose of attending to some business for a friend - who paid me for my services - and if I should be finally successfull - I will get a good fee - but that is "inter nos ". I had been very anxious to visit Washington on my own account - but had not the money to spare - so you see it happened very well

Page 2

as I got to see to my own case and yours without the expense of the trip. The President received me very cordially so did his son Robert and my friend Judge Patterson - The Judge assured me that I would get my pardon next week or any how by the time the Federal Court meets at Knoxville. I then went to the Attorney Generals office to examine your case. I found that your application had passed through his office with his approval and was on the Presidents table for his signature and also our friend R.B. Reynolds application was in the same situation. I then called the attention of the Judge to those two cases and he assured me that they would be approved of by the President

Page 3

I have no doubt but what you will get them soon - if not you need not give yourself any uneasiness about them as I have not doubt they will be approved of when they are reached in their proper order I was always satisfied that my application would be approved of but the great object I had was to see if I could so arrang it as to prevent my going to Knoxville on the 3rd Monday in this month - the goverment can not directly interfere with the State Courts - but Judge Patterson has advised the Attorney General at Knoxville to have my case continued until the next term of the Court - waiving my appearance at the present Term - this I hope he will do - as I dislike to go there at this

Page 4

time very much I will however hear in a day or two whether I will have to go. Robert ought not to let any body in Tennessee know where he is - he is indicted for the murder of Picane - and if they knew where he was he might be demanded - their is no case of his being uneasy or leaving the country on account of it for their is no danger about the case - but it is best not to be arrested at present - for things are compelled to improve in East Ten in a few months. I send you a circular of prices current of Bank Notes &c. While at Washington I had my Photograph taken and as Lizzie was anxious to have one I send it to here. Cousin Maria (Uncle Williams youngest daughter) says you all send your love to all but her - She told me to ask you if you had forgot her - She is the best Southern young lady I have ever met - she is beautiful and a very good girl - Uncle William has got well and the rest of our relations are well and always are anxious to hear from you all. Our friends and relatives are all well at Knoxville. I will be pleased to hear from you all at any time. Your Middle Tennessee friends have all returned Love to all Yours truly J.C. Ramsey

