Page 1

Exihs Retreat Oct. 31, 1870. Meprs Cornick & Crozier In reply to M. Cornicks of Oct. 16 I wrote very promptly to you jointly stating that I knew nothing & had never heard before of the confiscation case in which a bill of costs for nearly $200.00 had been sued out against me & a levy made upon my house & lot But that I requested you both to look into & scrutinise these costs & suggested that if found corect the bill be immediatel paid taking for my protection the necessary reciepts for the same as vouchers against a repayment of them before the next term. I also mentioned that there was a remainder of a claim against Mr. Breakbill of proba My $800.00 due & unpaid since May 4, 1869 out of which I asked W. J. M. Crozier who holds my claim to collect instanter at least the amount of this Bill of costs & apply it to the discharge of the costs. I failed tho in that letter to urge upon you both to have the money cutainly on hand before the day of sale & thus saeve the property & the accumulation of another cent of costs & that if the claim I hold on Mr. Breakbill should not be met promptly there were in vault of Peoples Bank

Page 2

certain securities which might be temporarily hypothecated to meet the present exigency at least till Breakbill would sell his hogs & meet his liability to me. I onmitted also to say to Mr. Crozier that Mr. Breakbill would be the more prompt to meet his note for the reason that till it is paid in full he has no obligation on me to dismiss the suit I have against him for the land for which the note was given by him I write now for the purpose of reminding both of you of the necessity of promptness The day of sale Nov. 15 will soon be here & provision ought to be made to get the money the day after this is rec'd & pay the Bill of costs the same day I get the thing off our min you cannot believe how these things annoy me. I confide them to your utmost vigilance & attention - Then as to the comprmise heretofore a matter of corespondence. W. A. R. Crozier has given me W Cornicks figures $5,000 he rply to him of this date I say that although that is a large she is out of a small loaf I am willing to have it entirrey & that of W. Cornick & Col. J. W.C. I repeat this to you both only with this request to protud at once with this adjustment & comprimise before A. R. C. leaves for New Orleans as he contemplates Thank W. Walley for inclosing to me as he did the advertisement of the sale. Such vigilance I admire & appreciate very highly in a stranger. When necessary please write & keep me posted on all matters, Yours Truly J.G.M. Ramsey

