Page 1

For Dr F.A.M. Dec. 19, 1876 with Love of his Brother J.G.M.R. Colo. Francis A. Ramsey Knox County Tennessee mail They arrived last evening all well June 16 1820.

Page 2

Abingdon June 15th 1820. Dear Sir, Your favor of the 24th recd. was handed to me on Tuesday last by the Revd. Glenn who is now in our village or its vicinity - He informed me Mr. Saunders had gone to Mr. McHenrys Springs in the county of Scott where he would spend some time. Should he call on me I will extend to him such civilities as I can. Altho I was not consulted either by my sister Margaret or yourself on the subject of your matrimonial union, yet presuming that the match was founded on prudent considerations, as well as on pure conjugal affection, I entertained from the first moment I heard it was intended, the strongest hopes that it was to be the means of promoting the comfort & happiness of you both, and also that of your families. I could not fail being pleased, and therefore now tender to you as well as to my sister my sincere congratulations on an event, with which I am persuaded you have both reason to be pleased - Be assured Sir, it affords me much pleasure to avail myself of the present occasion, to acknowledge and receive you as a brother.

Page 3

Mrs. Russell and myself have experienced much anxiety for some time past waiting the arrival of our charming Grand daughter together with her parents on a visit from Lynchburg - The last intelligence from them by letter leaving date on the first inst. informed us they then calculated on leaving home on the Wednesday following, or at any rate within a day or two afterwards - My wife has grown quite impatient that their arrival has been delayed so long - she has been looking for them since last Monday evening. By the arrival of the Eastern Mail tomorrow we hope to hear from them should they not get here before. The Grand daughter Frances Ann, and her mother will spend the summer with us, but her father will return in a few days after they come, to Lynchburg, to attend to his business there. My friend Captain Craig, Mr. William Smith his son in law, and daughter Mrs. Hamilton and Harriett, started on Tuesday last intending to go by the way of Jonesboro, Greensville and Dandridge to Knoxville to visit their friends in Tennessee and may probably give you a call on their way. Mrs. Hamilton is one of my very particular female friends, so is Mr. Smith and his lady. Should they call on you, I have no doubt you will find them

Page 4

quite agreeable - Harriett is remarkable for her literary acquirements and intelligence - Mr. Smith is a plain genteel person, and quite sociable and agreeable - Should Sarah Craig conclude to travel for her health they can afford her a convenient and easy mode of conveyance in Mr. Smiths carriage - It will give me pleasure to use any means within my power to have Sarah restored to health again, and shall be happy to see her at my house. I expected before this to have received a letter from my young friend Margaret Cowan - I fear now she is determined not to write to me - Have I offended her - It is impossible - assure her if I have that I did not intend it. I am Dear Sir your friend Andrew Russell

