Page 1

Knoxville Tenn Febyr 20th 1864 Dear Mother I wrote you a letter some time ago and have not yet received an answer to it, although I am impatiently looking for it. We are encamped about a mile from Knoxville & have enough to eat & good clothe Tell me about the returned Veterans & send me an express with an account of them. The weather is pretty cold at present, we had a little snow the other day just before that we had warm weather What do you think on my not reenlisting. some of the boys have received letters & they say that some people dont think much of us. I dont care what they think I want your opinion. When did you hear from Andrew last did he reenlist. There is nothing of importance going on here once in a while we manage to move a mile or so. so you see letter writing is quite a job. I dreamt the other night that Alise was very sick but the saying is to always take dreams contrary I am quite well and in good spirits and I hope

Page 2

that you are all the same. This is a very short letter but for the life of me I cant think of anything, well no wonder here I set in front of smoking fire almost smokes a fellows eyes out. This is the second letter that I wrote to you this morning the other one just as I got it finished I spoiled it by a big blot so that you could not read half of it all on account of the smoke. I'll get a letter yet all if I dont or a kind of a one send me a few Postage stamps I have paper and Envelopes How is John progressing. And I suppose Lily in the meantime has learned some new songs pop goes the weasel fe Dont Mary want a new veil well if she does tell her to wait till I get home I will buy her two. we have some green cooking here. we draw flour and have no bakeing soda so we take ashes &make lye Jerusalem you aught to our bread raise, we put a loaf about as thick

Page 3

as a 3 cent piece in our dutch oven an it raised the lid completely off. baking soad is $2 a pound corn meal 15 cts a quart. butter $1 pound. Potatoes $3bush Fresh fish 35 cts pound fe to the end of the chapter as Parson Bronlow says. send me a body of good Qills My old messmate William Smith is with me & has not reenlisted he sends his best respects Give my love to all Allen J. Clifton Company H.11th N.H.V. 2hd Brig. 2nd Div 9th A.C. Knoxville Tenn

