Page 1

Camp near Knoxville April 8th 1864 Dear Father I received yours of March the 17th at least a week ago but untill now I have had no opportunity to answer it. even now we may move before this is finished. Since my last hardly a day has passed without we were on the move. Yet at any one time we were not over 10 miles from our old camp. Advance one day, turn back the next, and so on -- But I beleive now that I can say with some safety that we are soon to get rid of all Counter-Marching at least, for we are about to leave the Department. I hear that our Division has been ordered back to the Department of the Cumberland. We left our old camp above the Plains on the Sixth and we are now encamped three

Page 2

miles this side of Knoxville. At present we are still under marching orders Last night I was guarding at Division Head Quarters. They say there that our Division is to be stationed along the Railroad. Commencing at Cleavland. Our leaving this Department will make none of us mad, for all are glad enough to get back to the old Department. I heare that the 11th and 12th Corps have been ordered to the Department of the Potomac. It wouldent surprise me a bit if our Corps was taken there. All ready you can heare a good deal of talk to that effect. By our leaving this Department I would think that there is to be but little done here in the way of a fight or an advance. There are but two Divisions now in the Department. The 23 Corps has advanced twenty miles beyond Bull's Gap. They report no enemy as yet. It is the general impression that the greater portion of Longstreet's forces have gone to reinforce

Page 3

General Lee. It has been so long since I have seen a paper that I hardly know what is going on in the Department of the Cumberland. As we are sending so many troops from there, it would seem that we intended to do but little there for some time, at least, untill the fate of Richmond is decided. We are now getting, and have been drawing full Rations for some time I never seen the boys in better spirits. I do not know of but one case of sickness in the regiment, and it is the same way all through the Division. I am just getting over a very severe cold. Of late I have suffered a good deal that way. But now, warm weather is curing me. A great many of our sick and wounded boys who have been home on Furlough have rejoined our company. We have also received some seventeen new Recruits, So that now we have quite a respectable company. But I will have to close

Page 4

Give my love to Ma and all the children and write soon. Yours Affectionately Will. Simon Fabry. Evansville Indiana. is the adress of Mr Lemmerman . I think you had better direct your letters to Chattanooga. I have not yet received the thirty dollars which Mr Young sent for through me. Yours &c. Will

