Page 1

If not called for in 10 days Return To John M. Lea. Nashville, Tenn. Mrs. Margaret C. Ramsey Mecklenburg near Knoxville Tenn

Page 2

43 North Vine Street, Nashville, Tenn., Feb. 2 1886 Mrs. Margaret C, Ramsey, My Dear Friend, I sent you to-day a copy of the proceedings of a Meeting of the Historical Society recently held at Murfreesboro. I know that you take a deep interest in the Institution of which my friend, your most excellent and honored husband was for a long time the President and most efficient and useful member. His name and memory are held in veneration by every member of the Society, and we all feel the deep obligation that we owe to him. I wish he had lived to have known the price of good fortune which has happened by which our means of carefulness will be increased. It was always a source of regret that our Treasury was so low that we could make no publications of our proceedings, and the efforts made by us to get help from the State never met with any success. A most worthy and public spirited gentleman who formerly lived in Tennessee -- whose death, I am grieved to say, was announced to me by a Telegram the night before last -- gave to the Society $5000, and the interest on this money coupled with the annual dues of the members will supply all our needs if economically managed. To many people those details would be uninteresting, but you will be pleased I know and whilst I write I feel almost as if I were talking to Dr. Ramsey. I take

Page 3

great pleasure in sending to you the first copy of any pamphlet printed by the Society with means not gathered from voluntary subscription. I hope that your health continues good and that you are far from the pain which often attends the aged even though not suffering from any real sickness. I too am getting old and have pretty much well accomplished every thing that I can do in this life. I have said to some of the Members that though I should be a good working member and never cease to take an interest in the success of the Society, I must be released from longer holding any official position. I am not so active as I was a few years ago and must be careful not to tax my strength. We had delightful weather till the beginning of the year and since that time there has scarcely been a clear day. Whilst I write it is snowing fast. Fifty five years ago such a snow would have caused a visit to "Wilt's old friend," and to the grounds of your father around "Aunt Edy's house," in quest of the rabbits, of which in that neighborhood, I recollect there were a great many, but my taste has changed, and now instead of hunting rabbits, I seek a warm fire and a cozy room. With kind regards to your family and best wishes for yourself Very Sincerely Your friend John M. Lea

