Page 1

Lizzie Mrs. M.B. Ramsey Knoxville Tenn-

Page 2

Seneca Md May 13th 1844 Dear Grandma I have not written because I was looking for a letter from Uncle Mr C or some of the Family. I only heard of Dear GrandPa&s death through the papers. What a Grand record he leaves. Why is not the retrospection of every man&s life pure and good and useful, like his, it is certainly worth the striving for. To be honored and lamented as GrandPa is. I am proud that I can say that I am a descendant of such a noble Grand Parent. I have met several persons here who knew GrandPa they all speak in the highest terms of him, even often having lived in a distant part of the Land a number of years, he made a an

Page 3

impression onto their minds that time or distance could not-obliterate. I had such a comforting dream of Mr. Jarnagin a few nights since. I saw him as plainly as I ever did in Life, and awoke feeling the warm pressure of his life to my own. The disappointment of him not-being actually present was great, but the memory of the dream will go with me through Life as something too sweet to be forgotten. The children are perfectly well. I have been sick most of the time of the Last three weeks I have had unusually good health all winter, but the spring has been so wet and cold it has cause some sickness. I wish I lived nearer as that

Page 4

you all could see the children. The Baby is so interesting. I heard a great noise in the Back yard the other evening. When I went to see what it was I found Baby balooing and throwing rocks at the moon. it had just risen and was very bright. I would lik to send you their pictures will do so as soon as I can have them taken. I have not had a letter from Ma in a good while am getting anxious about Them. I will write to Aunt Lizzie soon I do not feel well To night have a large boil on my face it is very painfull and affects my eyes, give my Love to all relations. Tell Aunt May to write and, I would like to have a letter from Willie and Melvin too, with much Love your Granddaughter Lizzie R. Jarnagin

