Page 1

41 North Vine Street Nashville, Tenn., March 19 1884 Dr. J.G.M. Ramsey Prest. Tenn Historical Society My Dear Sir, At the meeting of the Society last night, an an account of the proceedings being herewith enclosed, there were several subjects of interest discussed , but the one matter which gave most pleasure was the announcement that you had recovered from the severe attack of illuch , of which a few weeks ago we were so much pained to hear. There is not a member of the Society who, whether he has ever seen or known you or not, does not consider you as his friend and the recovery to your usual health affords them all a sincere gratification. Allow me to congratualte you - a few days in advance of the fact I believe - on the recrossence of the anniversary of your birth-day. Hither the limits of your life have been compreped since events, which have had a direct and beneficial influence upon the human race than ever before happened within three such duration of Time. The world has moved more within the last eighty five years than it moved for the two hundred and fifty preceeding years - To which intent it will move in the next eight five years no one can tell, for there seems to be no limit to an inguny into the secrets of nature - no differently in the way of prograph which the human capacity may not conquer.

Page 2

Prof. Garret read last night one of the most interesting papers which has ever been presented to the Society. The Society will soon be able to publish an annual volume. You know I much more appreciate matters of history than I do the collection and presentation of ideas, and I am glad to report that we are emerging from the museum period into the highter position of an organization whose office it will be to gather up every thing in the past worthy of a remembrance and to note all that is now passing for the benefit of those who may succeed us. After the company had left last night and Mr. Nelson and company were arranging the minutes, I told him I should invite you to-day, and he requested me to give to you his congratulations upon your recovery and to present his regards to Mrs. Ramsey. Please say to Mrs. Ramsey I highly appreciate the letter which she wrote to me a few months ago and I have filed it away among my valuables. I beg you both to accept my best and kindest wishes. Very Truly Your friend, John M. Lea

