Page 1

Dr J.G.M. Ramsey P.O.Box 32. Charlotte North Carolina

Page 2

Knoxville Tenn Jan 16th -71 Dr J.G.M. Ramsey Dear Sir: Yours of date was received last mail. Nearly four weeks ago I met with an accident by which my right arm was so much injured that I am as yet unable to write, but am able to attend to business in every other respect. As I supposed that Col Crozier and Capt Walley had advised you fully relative to all matters of interest that had occurred since my last letter to you I felt disposed to defer writing till my arm got well. I think the probability is that the case of your Son against head will be heard during the present term

Page 3

of U.S. Court. It will probably be heard somewhere about the middle of next month. I feel safe in saying that every thing has been done which the nature of the case admits of towards preparing it for trial I think we ought to gain it. but let the result be what it may, you shall be promptly advised. As regards your case in Supreme Court of U.S. as Col Crozier had employed counsel I did not feel authorized to interfere, nor did I feel there was any necessity for it. I really know nothing about Mr Moore one of your Lawyers; but his partner Jessy B. Bright is a man of distinguished ability. On the other hand I fear the fact that Bright during the late Civil War was expel-

Page 4

-led from the U.S. Senate as Senator from Indiana, because of his avowed sympathy for the South. will tend to weaken his influence with a Radical Court. Yours truly T.R Cornick per S.K. Cornick P.S. I am looking forward with great solicitude to the hearing at the March Chancery Court of the case of Brownlow & Ross vs. Lyon & Ramsey. I have bestowed a great deal of labour in trying to master the details. and whether I shall have done any good or not I believe I can frighten the opposite council by presenting some points which never have heretofore been presented.

Page 5

I do not by any means give up the case notwithstanding I tremble at what may be the results. T R. Cornick.

