Page 1

Report Committee in Case of Woodrapp Sims

Page 2

The Committee appointed to enquire into the case of the Ship Woodrapp Sims, Heath Master Report After due enquiry, and consideration of all the facts that can be ascertained, they are of opinion, that the damage sustained in the first instance, by cutting away a part of the Masts and rigging for the preservation of the People and Cargo after She took ground, is the only proper charge to a general average This opinion they conceive is supported by the following considerations. 1st. Because it appears in testimony that no human efforts could have prevented the ship from grounding somewhere at the time, the direction therefore said to have been given to it, was only a choice of immenent dangers. 2nd. Because after She had taken the ground, a considerable intervening time elapsed when it remained doubtful whether She would not be eventually and totally lost, no question therefore could have existed during that period as to the general average embracing any subsequent charges ; such an Idea could only have occurred when the circumstance of her being got on floats was ascertained. 3rd. Because the doubtful state of her ultimate preservation existed so long as to occasion the entire breaking up of her intended Voyage and was the cause of a considerable part of her funds being shipped on board other Vessels. For

Page 3

these reasons your Committee thinks that the subsequent expences incurred on the ship, are inadmissable under the claim of general average. As regards a question of referrence, your Committee feel some doubts as to the propriety of acquiesence as it would involve a concession of principle in a case that appears to them to be conclusively plain. If however for the honor of the Office, and to evidence a disposition to meet all questions of claims in a prompt and amicable spirit of accomodation the board should think it advisable to refer, (in case a majority of the Offices concerned agree to the measure,) your Committee respectfully submits the decision to their better Judgement. Will. Poyntell Jacob Shaltz } Committee John Large Insurance Office of No. Ama. Nov. 17, 1807.

