Page 1

Cleveland, June 17th 1864 Col O.P. Temple Knoxville, Tenn. Herewith find the bill which has been so long coming to hand. The deed was not with it. Being called on to perform an official act reminds me of my peculiar condition & I have concluded to address you on the subject ' beg your "Kind Offices." Are our judicial offices vacant? Is my fial a nulity? Do I commit an offense by performing official duties? Alas Gov. Johnson intened to appoint Judges & Chancellors, or issue new commissions to those who have been elected by the people? These questions are much talked of among us & all seem to form opinions from what they conjecture to be the opinion of Gov. Johnson I have deemed it proper to perform my official duties until some action is had by the Governor. I have advices from Nashville that Gov. Johnson had procured from the President a special pardon for Judges Gant & Patterson & Ch. Luckey; and Judge Gant tells me that he has such a paper. I am the only otherJudge in E. Tenn elected at the same time. The omission to include me look, a little ominous. Judge Gant tells me that he intended for me & others have done so. but the Judge perhaps was a little embarassed himself by certain letters & speeches during past troubles; nor have we many other prominent men of the Union party in our district who remained at home. And those who left were perhaps displeased with my early

Page 2

opposition to the proposed seperation of E. Tenn; and although all parties at present approve my views on the subject as appears from the action of the late convention at Knoxville it is possible that the displeasure remains & is operating against me, while the cause of it is forgotten. I am left to conjecture the difficully in my case; nor am I willing to believe it arises out of my subsequent canvass for congress when my failure resulted from the charge of my union affliliations, & it soon became sufficient cause for an arrest & in some cases long imprisonment to prove that a man had voted for me. But if that canvass caused the difficulty, I may ask why should I be held to so harsh a scrutiny when in the general effort of the original union men to make peace with the military, letters, speeches & manifestoes became so common? If others who were then on the Bench & by their position might with some show of prosperity have remained quiet are to be excused for their letters & speeches on the ground that they were forced to make such manifestations, why should I not receive the same leniency for speeches made while a private citizen & therefore in a more exposed condition? Had they been more active than I in their opposition to succession? Or is it intended as a compliment to my courage in not being awed by the military; or to my integrity in holding boldly to my opinions under all curcumstances? I apprehend that some one has impressed the Governor against me & no doubt others would like to

Page 3

to keep up the fuding. Nothing that I could say or do would be likely to operate on his & in these days of trouble & general suspicion when every one seems afraid to speake above their breath, I hardly know how to approach any one on a matter of interest to myself. The time was when I should not have hesitated to refer to a long list of friends in Knoxville - Yourself, Maynard, Heiskell, Dickerson , Rogers, Luttrell, Jackson, Baxter, Flemming & others too numerous to mention. But whether you have taken interest enough in matters in this district to form an idea of my course as to be able to speake a good word for me is a matter unknown to me. If you have & will be kind enoughto get a few friends to join you, I have no doubt you can easily turn the scale in my favor, & at all events, you will place me under many obligations- Please pardon me for unexpectedly illustrating in the present instance the old adage that self as the subject generally produces a long epistle. Yours Truly A. G. Welcker

Page 4

A G Welcker A June 24/64

