30th March 1864. (Wednesday)By the Kindness of Gen. Schospp, Cols. Morgan, Tucker, Colman and Myself were paroled to the IslandYesterday was a beautiful day. To day is the most blustry rainy day I ever experienced.We form into a Mess, Bennett, Griffin, Ellis, Harper & Myself. Live pretty well.Thursday 31st March 1864Gen  A Scospf Ordered Coleman (Col. C) Col. R.G. Morgan & Col. Rucker and Myself to his quarters &
   paroled us to the Island Gen Wykoff Thompson Gen Vann
   and the Cols. of our command form a mess, and live very well.We give a Negro woman  week for Cooking. 10 cts for washing Thursday Friday 1st April 64Purchase table ware chairs etc. The prorata share of each Man in our room is $5.95/100.
                   I paid Col. Morgan $9.20/100. An order oh the sutler. Remd. $3.30.Friday 2nd April 1864.Spent the day in arranging our room etc. Went down to see the prisoners. They are all pretty
                   well contented.Saturday 2nd April 1864.During the days passed I have written to my wife & father, to Sam, to Harrold, to Col. Fite.Sunday 3d April, 64.Spent the forenoon in reading and went to the barracks to hear Dr. Handy, a political prisoner from
                   Portsmouth preach. The firstsermond I have heard for about 12 Months. The Dr. is a good old man & a good preacher.Monday 4th April 1864Borrowed $15.00 from Cheatham & 12$ from Col. Duke today.Tuesday 5th April 1864.A very rainy, windy, cold and disagreeable day. Purchased a hat at $5.00 & $1.00 worth stamps,
                   40cts worth Tobacco. Wrote to Col. Fite J. G.Wednesday 6th April 1864A very pleasant day. Bet a bottle of Whiskey with Col. Morgan that we would not be exchanged by
                   the 25th last, to be paidafter our exchange. Wrote a letter to my wife at night.Cols. Duke, Morgan, Coleman, Tucker & Myself and Capts Gibson & C.H. Morgan are within
                   one room. We all get on pretty well.Thursday April 7th 1864Arose early. Most delightful morning. Capt. Gibson & myself walked to the sutlers. He ordered a
                   pair of fine Cavalry boots from Philadelphia. We then walked to the shore & looked out on the Bay
                   & across to Del.re City.It is about one & a quarters miles to the city. We can see it much plainer this morning than we
                   have been able to do heretofore. After breakfast we all went to the Barracks and found the officers in
                   fine spiritsand doing very well. Had a chat this morning with Dr. Handy. Brogden is playing chess with Col. Duke.
                   He is quit a nice, kind and intelligent gentleman.He carried a ring over to a political prisoner yester and had my wife's name cut on it. One Mr. Long, a
                   political prisoner, cut the name & would not charge me any thing for it. I am under obligation to
                   Long & Brogden both for their kindness and also to Col. Morgan who gave me the ring. I will send
                   it in my next letter to my wife.I walked a long walk this evening to our new quarters. Do not like them much. Wrote to R.
                   Avsrillthanking him etc.Friday April 8th 1864.Arose at 6 1/2 O,clockTook a walk on the beach and looked at steamers & sail vessels. Hermaphrodite schooners, Barks etc.Del a ware City is just opposite the Island on the Deleware side  New Castle is just above & in sight on the
                   same side. New Jersey is on the Eastern shore from the fort.I learned to day that this is Pea Island, it having been formed & consequently the name by a Dutch Vessel
                   having foundered here loaded with peas upon which the Island formed, peas growing every year even up to thelast. It is said the vessel was lost during the first revolution. It is 48 miles below Philadelphia, just at the head of
                   Deleware bay.Gen. ASchospf, a foriger by bith birth. A Hungarian is in Command of this prison. He ' s a clever
                   kind gentleman. Treats prisoners kindly and is polite to every one.Saturday April 9th 1864.Rather cloudy this morning but warm. Gen Schospf came into our room & had a pleasant chat.I gave our cook 90 cts which is to be placed to my credit on the mess book. Wrote to Martha & Father to day.SaturdaySunday April 10th, 64.Dark & rainy morning and a little cold. Wrote to my dear Wife & sent her a ring made a presented by Col. 
                   R.C. Morgan & her name cut on it by A Mr. Long, political prisoner at this place. Spent the day rather indifferently.Monday April 11th, 64.Went to the barracks and spent some time with Capt Bennett & Ellis. Nothing new or interestingTuesday 12th April, 64.Morning reasonably fine Arose at out 6 next to the sutlers & weighed 164 1/4Rec.d a letter from Howell G. Ruck dated the 9th Inst. He is at Point Lookout. Wrote to John
   G. Turner cysn of Gallatin Tenn. My thanks etcWednesday 13th April 1864.Morning dark, cloudy and rainy. Wrote to Howell at Point Lookout.Rec.d a letter from Lieaet Rucks dated the
   6th Wrote to my wife and sister Holly dating my letter 14th. Went to the
   barracks with Gen. Vance & Lieut Smith. Drizzled rain all day.Thursday April 14th 1864.Morning clear, bright & pleasant  Paid Gen. Thompson five (5) dollars as Mess findincluding the 90 cents which I paid to Jane (the Cook) some days ago.Rec.d from Mrs  Thayer of New York, a sister of Gen. Frank Cheathams, one barrel containing
                   various articles & bundles of cloths for different men and one bundle containing coat, pants,
                   drawers, shirts, socks & etc for myself. I distributed them all & gave those sent to me to
                   Jimmie Averitt to give to the boys. Gave the coat to Capt Griffin.Friday April 15th 1864.Morning clear, bright and very pleasant. Walked to the Sutlers, Weighed 167, pounds.Spent the most of the fore noon in distributing the cloths sent me by Mrs Thayer.Became more intimate with Lieut WolffWolfe. Find him social & full of life & fun.
                   Saw Bob, Buzz & Jimmie Averett. Men in the Barracks all disspirited on the subject of exchange.Saturday April 16th 1864.Morning clear but hazy. Warm and very pleasant. Went to the Sutlers and weighed 164 1/2 pounds. Nothing
                   of great interest transpired to day.Sunday April 17th 1864.Morning clear very pleasant. Walked with Capt. G. to the Sutlers. Heard Dr. Handy preach in the barracks on
                   the text or rather subject of Peace. I do not remember the words nor theverse or chapter in the bible. Preached a good Sermon and pleased every one. Wrote to Bettie.Monday April 18th 1864.Morning rather chilly and windy. Weighed 164 1/2. Day pleasant, except the cool & stiff breez.Tuesday the 19th 1864.Today nine months ago I was captured. Since that time I have passed through various & varied scenes.
                   Met many clever men and very many rascally villians. This morning is pretty cool & windy.Visited the barracks but did not remain long. Men getting on pretty well. Passed the day as usual without much changeWrote to W.V.R. Hallum.Wednesday 20th April 1864.Morning cool enough to be bracing yet very pleasant. Went to the Sutlers and weighed 169 1/2 pounds, half pound less
                   than yesterday.Rec.d a letter from my Father which gave me much satisfaction as it gave no particulor bad news. All well, but great scarcity
                   of corn etc  in the land. Miss Lucie Phelps is married to a BoyDr. The letter
                   was dated the 30th March ,64Visited the barracks and saw the officers. All well except for Capt. Griffin who is only a little unwell.Day closed pleasantly but my rest was some what disturbed by the late hours kept by some of our parties, Capt. Brogden
                   among the rest. Wrote to my Fatherdating the letter on the 21st the day I will put it in the office.Thursday April 21, 64.Morning very pleasant. Arose early considerings how late I was kept up last night. Went to work in earnest as we discharged
                   our little boy Johnie yesterday.I paid Col. Tucker fifty (50) cents as my part of the boys wages he having been here three weeks.Went to the barracks. Officers all well & in good spirits.Friday April 22d, 64.Morning pleasant, a little cool. Wrote to Capt. R.A. Bennett - Hartsville.Saturday April 23d, 64.Morning quite pleasant. Write to Gill & Carter atCamp Douglass, one page note paper.Considerable stir with our crowd preparing to have pictures taken, order 1/2 doz. John L. Gibson,
                   Photographic Art Galleries, 1024 Chesnut Street Philadelphia  Pa. is the Artist. Paid $2 1/2 to the Artist.Borrowed 50 cts of Col. Coleman. Weighed 171 pounds  Rec.d a letter from J.A. Cnossury
                   & answered it. Our cook Jane left us to day being ordered out of the fort.We cook the little that is needed ourselves for the present.Sunday April 24th 1864.Morning very pleasant, in fact warm, but windy. Took a walk but saw nothing. After breakfast went to the barracks.
                   Officers still having their pictures taken.Lieut  Wolf gave me a letter from Thomas Fuller. I sent for him. Had a long talk. He had not heard from home in over twelve months.
                   Seemed to be glad to meet Me. Said he was picked up eight months ago in North Mississippi while on ditached duty watching the
                   movements of the enemy.Told me of A Bones being at Nashville & Ge.w Dillard being at Gallatin.Day closed pleasantly, Dr. Handy preached but I did not hear him.Monday April 25th 1864.Morning dark, rainy and disagreeable. Rained all day or nearly so. Stayed in Fort all day. Rec.d a letter from Lieut  H.L. Rucks.
                   Nothing fresh but all things gloomy.Mailed a long letter to my dear wife which was written yesterday in answer to hers of the 14th  Just which by chance rec.d
                   yesterday & answered but not mailed, same day.My wife is rather gloomy yet perhaps not more so than at some farmerstimes
                   & God know not more so than she has cause to be.Tuesday April 26th  1864.Morning warm and rainy a little. Clears off about 9 Oc. A.M. & remains very pleasant all day. Visit the Barracks Find the officers
                   all in good health and spirits. Answer Howells letter.Officers in my room get into an excited debate as to the waning of infilating fire. Authorities decide that it is a firing from a point
                   which a prolangation of the enemy's lines would reach.Decided by Walkers Military & Noval pocket dictionary.I have a spell of headache this evenings Pretty bad. Most elegant news inthe papers to day. Mchtionsa victory for us on Cane river.
                   So, which has been Claimed by the Feds. A victory with the taking Plimoth in N.C. with 2500 prisoners etc Very Cheering.Wednesday April 27th, 64Morning clear and pleasant. My head has gotten easy and I feel pretty well. Rec.d one letter from my wife dated the 15th,
                   and one from my father dated the 19th April 1864. Both very satisfactory and gave me great pleasure in reading them.I answered both of said letters, wrote also to Holly M. Johnson & to Maj. Thos. Barry to day.Went to the Barracks, Found all well thereand in good spirits.Had news in the papers confirmatory of that we have heretofore had in referance to the Red River, or Pleasant Hill or Cane river
                   affair. Seeming to establish the fact that our forces gained quite a victory there. Captured Many, perhaps 6000, prisoners and
                   Killed & wounded many more. Also establishing the fact of Plymouth being in our hands with a capture of 1600 prisoner,
                   25 pieces Artilery many stores etc.Gen  Wessel was in Command of our forces. News generally satisfactory  Gold 81 1/2.Thursday April 28th 1864.Morning clear & very cool for the season and windy.Mailed four letters, To my wife, my father, my sister Holly, and Maj. Thomas Barry.Received one letter from Father dated 2nd April, 64 telling me of the electon in Smith.
                   Wrote to Mrs  Thayer, 37th West 9th St. New York. and to my Father. Day closed pleasantly Did not visit the barracks.Friday April 29th 1864,Morning pleasant and bright not quite so cool. I am P.M. to day. Saw two most handsome ladies in the fort who desired
                   to show themselves as sympathisers with us. One pretty little curlyhaired one nodded and laughed & spoke & did many cute things to draw attention. I would like to know her
                   name, but do not.Saturday 30th April 64.Morning pleasant, Called at Lieut  Wolfs office and Saw David Scales & Charley Mc Clain. Had a long and interesting
                   talk with them. Heard much about Carthage, etc. etc..  Not good news of Harrels & McKee families.That Miss Pwas actually engaged to N.W.G. all the while she was
                   denying it so bitterly. Rec.d one letter from Ranse Hallium and one from my wife dated each 23d. inst.Also a check on NewYork for 42___forty___ dollars whereby I am swindled out of two dollars. Day closed as usual.Sunday May 1st 1864.Morning pleasant. Went to hear Dr. Handy preach at the barracks. Wrote to my wife, to Ranse Hallium & to
                   Bettie Bridgewaters. Care of R. Averett, Hartsville.Day closed pleasantly.Monday May 2nd 1864.Morning pleasant. Gen  Thompson mustered all of our mess except Tucker & Gibson and we made a chain
                   for Mrs  Schospf.Wind rose in the evening very high. Rec. one letter from my sister Holly & one from my Father  Answered
                   both of them. They contained news of L.B. Mooresdeath which occured on the 22nd April 1864. Rained at night.Tuesday May 3rd 1864.Morning bright & clear though some cool wind blowing. Visited Barracks & saw Jack Bradly &
                   ForrestTimberlake. Mailed letters to father Holly.Wednesday May 4th 1864Morning bright & clear. Recd. 39 50/100 for my check. Loaned Jos Harper $5.00  Spent 1$. for stamps
                   50cts. for oils & tooth picks.Wrote to J.B. Moores and mailed it. Day closed as usual.Thursday May 5th 1864Morning bright and clear  Went to the barracks.H. Brogden left us ThisYesterday Morning on special exchange. He is quite a clever, ageeable
                   fellow and full of life.Spring seems to have opened in earnest. Warm & pleasantWe change quarters to day and I had a desperate headache but I recovered early in the Night. Like our New
                   quarters pretty well. Rec.d one letter from Van Sellers; one from Howell Rucks.Friday May 6th 1864.Morning pleasant. I had quite a pleasant night after my head become easy. Pretty well pleased with our quarters.Wrote to Van Sellers Rec.d a letter from Col. FiteAlso one from J.G. Bransford containing forty dollars which was paid me in sutlers tickets. Write to Mrs. Ellis &
                   send Gen  M. Jeff Thompsons Photograph & Autograph.Saturday the 7th May, 64Morning bright & clear and warm. Went to the barracks loaned Capt. Kit Bennett five (5) dollars. Paid Gen
                   Thompson five (5) dollars for the benefit of our mess. That makes ten (10) dollars I have paid, in all.I have receid seventy nine (79) dollars from homeowe E.F.Cheatham fifteen
   (15) dollars.and Col. Duke twelve (12) minus two & a half (2 1/2) dollars. The 2 1/2 he gave me to boot in a hat swap. (All paid)Gold 75 to day.Sunday May 8th 1864.Morning very bright and remarkably pleasant. Went to church or preaching. Rumors of a fight in Virginia. Lee reported falling
                   back 2 1/2 miles. Burnsides with 30,000 men reinforced Grant. Loss immence on both sides. I do not believe this report much
                   less do I believe those with even less foundation that I hear in the evening later.Wrote to my dear wife & Howell andBransford to day.Another rumor that we are to be removed to the barracks. Dont believe that. Our crowd is increased by a Capt  Gordon
                   from Maryland and two young Wooleys from Ky who have been sent here.Monday May 9th 1864Morning bright & clear and warm. Passed the day in great anxiety, wanting to hear news but get none satisfactory.Capt  Gibsons wife visits the the Island, He is now out with her at the tavern. Rec.d a letter from my father dated the 30th
                   ?ithand answer it. Rained arefreshing shower this evening but remains very warm.Tuesday May 10th 1864.Warm & clear though a little spoky.Rec.d 3 photographs from the Artist.Rec.d orders not to visit the barracks any more or to go west of the slugh
                   running across the Island. Several of the prisoners boozy to day hence the order I think.Wrote to Rev. S.G. Caruthers at Elkton. Coleman Dick Morgan, Duke, Ellis  Brogdon  Oaks have presented their pictures to me.
                   I have given one of mine to Col. Duke, one to Col. Morgan & one to Col. Tucker.Wednesday May 11th 1864.This morning I start to my dear wife my own Capt  Ellis & Col. Colemans pictures and write to her.The day is pleasant. No news of importance. What we do receive is very much against us, though not as much so as
                   I expected. Hence I conclude our condition is tolerably favorable. It was announced on dress parade yesterday evening
                   that Fort Dorling had fallen, been taken by Butler. I even doubt that from to days papers.Dr. H. reports from the Barracks a bad state of affairs. All doubtless originating from thedrunkeness of a few men. How little judgement or control over themselves some men have!Srantof self government is a great aspect in Col. 
                   Character.Thursday May 12th 1864.Morning dark gloomy and desperately uninviting. I spent a bad night owing to a discussion before bed time in my room. I come nearer
                   having the blues this morning than at any time since my imprisonment.But I will not be dejected, my soul shall not be cast down nor troubled within me. I have a dear loving wife to live for and forfor her I will live and for her sake I'll be cheerful & grow fat and lively preparatory to my meeting her. God bless her!Purchased a coarse horn cobrbat 30 cts and a small pocket knife at $1.25/100.I paid Col. Duke yesterday $9.50/100 all I owed him, having borrowed $12.00, and paid him $2.50/100 previously in a hat swap.News not so unfavorable as I expected. Report that Grant is intrenching, I do not believe it.Day closed rather darkly. Dr. Lee arrived her  from Camp Douglass.Friday 13th May 1864.Morning warm & cloudy. Rec.d one letter from Uncle S. Ward dated the 4th of May 1864 and one from Capt. John W. Rolisson
                   dated the 8th May. Nothing very in couraging in the papers to day.We see however from the number of Gen  officers killed that the fighting must have been desperate and that it required the Gens. to
                   take a prominent & dangerous position.Up to the present we have information of the killed. Maj. Gen. Sedgwick, Brigd. Gs  Wordsworth, Rice, Hayse & Owen.five, woundedBrigd. Gens. Webb, Bartlett, Noble, Ward, Robinson (5), five.Captured, Brigd. Gen. Saymore, Shorter, & Sorbett, (3) three. In all (13) Thirteen.Day closed rainy and gloomy. Startling reports reached here. one that Lee had surrendered. That is doubtless like the news which
                   was read on dress parate the other evening of the fall of Fort Darling  a lie.Wrote to Sam to day.Saturday May 14th 1864.Morning very gloomy and rainy. Got a group of our mess this morningGave one of my Photographs each to Col. Morgan, Capt. Gibson, & Lieut  Andrews. Andrews has not given me one of his.Wrote to Uncle Sterling and to Capt  J.W.R. Sisson this morning.To days paper reports Brig  Gen  Stevenson Killed, Brig  Gen  Birney wounded, Brigd. Gen. Crawford Captured.Day closed with out any Serious report. I am growing more discontented every day. I le rally from it though. It is unmanly to
                   retrograde in any thing unless you do so as a matter of policy. I ' le be a man at all hazzard  If I cant conquer dis content I can cast it away from me. Ile do the former if possible.Sunday May 15th 1864,Morning heavy peals of rolling thunder seemed to be playing the reveille of the world. It is raining a little this morning and a heavy rain
                   seemes to have fallen last night. Day pretty pleasant without rain.Bad news all day. Lee & A.P.Hill are wounded & J.E.B. Stuart and Longstreet are dead. Lee ' s retreat converted into a route
                   and Grant picking up prisoners by the thousandsafter having taken Gen. Ed. Johnson & his whole division and a large portion of Early ' s division or brigade. All this and much
                   more in dispatches to Gen. Dix N.Y. over Secty  Stauntons own name. I do not bleive the half of it.Also Daulton taken with over 5000 prisoners & forty pieces of artilary. Wrote to my wife.Monday May 16th 1864.Morning dark and rainy. I close a letter written to my wife yesterday and mail it, sending a ring made and presented by Col.
                   6esentColeman. And also Col. Morgan ' s & Capt  Gibsons Photographs.I have now sent Cols  Duke  Coleman  Morgan  Gibsons & & Ellis.  My own to my wife.News not so startling to day. Rec.d a letter from my father & one from Will Johnson. Answered Will to night.Tuesday May 17th 64Morning cloudy & warm. Wrote to my father to day. Not a very satisfactory letter. Will do better next time. Sent him my
                   Photograph in this letter. If I get some better in future I'le send another to my dear wife & one to him.Maj. Gen. Edmond Johnson & Brig. Gen. G.L. Stuart arived to day and some three hundred other officers.Johnson & Stuart are on parole. I loaned Col. Tucker five (5) dollars spent 50 cts for paper.Commence a letter to Tom. Day closed as usual.Wednesday May 18th 1864.Morning warm & cloudy. Finished a letter to Same of two pages. Mail it to day.Rained all day nearly. Day gloomy in deed.Rec.d a letter from Howell.Thursday May 19th 1864.Morning warm & cloudy  Wrote to my wife & Howell.Mrs. Thayer Miss Beckie Cash & other ladies came on the Island  Stay all night. Have great desire to callon them but am not permitted by the Authorities. Mrs. Thayer wants my Photograph which I will send her when I receive it.Capt. Cheatham stayed with us all night, having called on Mrs. T. he being her cousin & her pass to visit the Fort
                   mentioning his name. Paid 50 cts. for beer.Friday 20th May 1864Morning warm & clear. Could not learn any thing of the condition of affairs away from here. Got no letter.Disappointed as I was expecting several. News very encouraging.Grant having fallen back to the north side of the Ni River & Lee advanced to it. Lees lines being farther north than at any
                   previous time during his present fight. Butler whipped & falling back. Claim his effort as nothing but a reconosance
                   intended for a diversion also.Saturday May 21st 1864.No letter. A little annoyed as I certainly ought to have one. News still very good. Lee's address to his army, Very encouraging.Our Paroles were taken away from us to day by order, as Gen Shocpf says of the War department at WashingtonWe are not permitted to go out of the house except with a guard. In other respects our privilages are the same. I am not at
                   all sorry that mine was taken away.Day very pleasant. Mr. Somebody ' s School of young ladies was down at the Fort to day. Some with schoolgirl vanity and
                   want of experience acting rather imprudently.That highly adorning quality of a lady, Modesty is much more sparingly dispensed among the Northern than Southern Ladies.The most Yankee women I have seen are " tomboys ". Would not like to have one for a wife.Sunday May 22nd 1864.Morning very warm and cloudy.Wrote to my dear wife to day and to Col. Fite. To Fite a short page note paper. Nothing in it.Day was a long & lonesome one  Walked out on the beach with a Corporal, in the evening.Monday May 23d 1864.Morning clear & cool.Col. Morgan owes me 2.50/100 $. borrowed on the 20th Inst. Wooley 50cts. borrowed to day. Rec.d three letters to day, R. Averett
   Capt. Blackman & Col. Fites. No news.Day closed pleasantly. Men take a bath in the river.Tuesday May 24th ,64.Morning warm & rather cloudy.Wrote to Capt  Blackman, Col  Fite and Mr. R. Averett. Rec.d a letter from my wife and one from Sister Holly. Wrote to my sister.
   News from Va not bad.Wednesday May 25th 1864.Morning bright & clear. Rained last night.Wrote to my wife this morning and will send the letter, also out to sister H to day. News favorable Gold 86 1/4.Willie Key was ordered away from us to ride Welsh ' s horses. I would object if I did not know that Baily P. Likes it.Rec.d no letter to day. Bought stamps & Enve. $1.00Thursday May 26th 1864Morning dark and rainy. Rained near all night. Wrote to Howell this morning. Mail it to day. Rained all day. Stayed in the house
   playing chess & reading Vassars 20 years around the world.Friday May 27th 1864.Rained all night & still at it. Gloomy & dark.
                   Wrote one letter to Martha, M.B. & one to Sam. Day closed as usual.Saturday May 28th 1864.Morning very clear and bright & pleasant. Capt. Gibson's wife left for home & he came up to his room again.Rec.d an order not to write morethan one page of note paper in a letter.Wrote to Frank Timberlake at Johnsons Island.A lot of Citizen prisoners about 50, from Fredericks burg Va. arrived here to day. Take to three meals to day.Rec.d one letter from my wife one from Lou Moores.Sunday 29th May 1864.Morning bright & clear. Write to my wife & Mrs  Moores one page each.Day rather long. Past it principally in reading. Duke makes a revelation of facts which I have for several days suspicioned.Fine evening.Monday May 30th 1864Morning clear, cool and pleasant. Write to Howell this morning. Mail letters to my wife Lou Moores & Howell all to day.
                   See when 2 I get answers.Rec.d one letter from Capt  N.W. M cConnell, one from Capt  A.E. Bell, one from H.L. Rucks. Also a note from Ellis &
                   Bennett informing of Mrs. Goodall sending in their box a ham etc. to me. I must Mrs G. a letter in thanks.Tuesday the 31st May 1864.Morning bright & clear, and warm. Wrote to Ellis & Bennett & to Capt Bell.Gold yesterday, 88 3/4. News good. Grant gone to White house!Walked out to the Suttlers & purchased 1 gum paper 50c 1 pack envelopes, 25: Stamps 15cts ink 10cts.Col. Morgan paid me 2 50/100 money borrowed. No news except Gold being ,92. (Closed) having been up to 94 3/4.Wednesday June 1st 1864.Morning bright clear & comfortable. Wrote to Lieut. Rucks & Capt N.W. M cConnell.Rec.d a letter from Miss Bettie Bridgewaters dated 21st Wt. In expectation
                   that Col. Hoffman Com.d of Prsawould beet up but he went off 
                   without visiting us.Day closed as usual.Thursday June 2nd 1864Morning warm & rainey. Wrote to my dear wife and to Cousin Bettie B. Poor letters both of them.Slept last night on the upper bunk. Well pleased with the change. Hoffman returned to the Island this morning but did not visit our
                   quarters. He tells Gen. Johnson that there is no chance for exchange now. Rcd. 1/2 doz. Photographs.Friday June 3d. 1864.Morning bright & clear, warm & pleasant.Write to Mrs Medora Thayer  Hoosic Falls, N.Y. and send my Photograph to her. Give one to Capt. Gibson and one to Col. Coleman
                   & Capt Mitchell.Capt Morgan makes a great blow to night about a " fuss " he and the " Shark " from S.C., resident of Md.
                   however were about to get into. Gen. Johnson comes in & explains it.This is the 4th instead of the 3d. Day closed pleasantly.Saturday 4th June 1864Morning bright & pleasant. Wrote to Bettie Johnson. The occurance reported as of yesterday took place to day between
                   Capt Morgan & the S.C. or Md. shoel. It was a " blow " after
                   the explanation of Gen Johnson.Sunday June 5th 1864,Morning rainy & gloomy. Went to the barracks, saw all my friends, including Capt. Foster & Lieut Boddy. Learned that
                   Capt. Allen had gone through on parole to be exchanged, and that W.S. Condett is here a prisoner.Spent a pleasant day. Wrote to my wife and to Bill Condett.Tuesday 7th June 1864.Morning quite chilly and a little cloudy. Wrote to Father, Capt. R.A. Bennett & Col. Fite.Company G " is washing out our quarters to day. Walked out in the evening. Some boatmen running their skiff near Lieut Tomblinson in the river struck him with an oar. I do not
                   think they sought a chance to strike him, but am confident they could have avoided it if they had tried.Weighed 169. Gold 93 3/4 - 94 3/4. Closed at the former price.Wednesday 8th June ,64.Morning chilly but pleasant. Write to Mrs M. Thayer at Hoosack falls, N.Y.Also to Mrs Ellis sending to her my Photograph.Commence a chain for Mrs. Thayer  saw up two needles 160 links & driss&
                   put together 26. The chaine making is not so hard after all. I ' me going to make several.Rec.d one letter from Rance dated 2n May 1864. One from Bettie dated the 1st May also one dated the 30th of the same month. Both
                   cheering letters. She has rec.d my Photograph Cols  D ' s C ' s & Capt E s.Thursday June 9th 1864.Morning rainy & cloudy, though warm. Wrote to my wife & Rance both this morning. Letters very satisfactory to me.Work on my chain in forenoon Put up 30 links.Work some in the afternoon. Find it is better to do this sort of work than to do nothing. Day closed pleasantly.Friday June 10th 1864Morning very bright and clear. Write to Howell this morning and to Sam. Work on chain Put in 30 links. Rec.d a letter from Howell.Saturday June 11th 1864.Morning cool & cloudy. Wrote to Howell. Work on chain all day. Get on pretty well. Nothing new.Gold to day & yesterday is 98 1/3.Sunday June 12th 1864Morning & day bright and clear. Write to my wife and send her Gen. Thompsons Photograph in Military dress.Day dragged off heavily.Monday June 13th 1864.Morning cool & bright. Write to my Father & also a note to Capt Bennett. Spent the day working on my chain; finish it
                   except the cross etc.Capt. Gibson went to New Castle on business. Rec.d one letter from Capt, Bll, one from Col. Fite.Tuesday June 14th 1864.Morning coudy but pleasant. Write to Fite a pretty good letter in referance to his difficulties with his " Child " .
                   Also write to Capt Bell.Taken sick about dark not seriously so.Wednesday 15th June ,64Very unwell with some fever & dreadful headache. Remained sick all day.Thursday June 16th 1864Very sick. The Dr. Calls to see me. Left a prescription which was filled in the evening. I took the Rhubarb & Magnshia &
   am to take the quinine pills to morrow & continue them on until I am well or better.Rec. a letter from my Father.Wednesday 15th June 1864.Morning pleasant.Had the headache all night & all this day. Did not get out of bed long at a time.Thursday June 16th 1864.Morning dark & warm. Am some better though not well yet. Write a note to Capt. Bennett this morning in answer
   to our note from him yesterday. Get worse in the evening.Friday June 17th 1864.Very Sick. Dr. Calls & leaves a prescription which is filled in the evening. Am very sick all day with severe
   headache & fever. Rec.d a good letter from my good father. Helps me some.Saturday June 18th 1864.Still very sick. My medicine asperates finely. Hope to be up soon. I am Taking Rhubarb & Magneshia & Quinine
   pills. Receive My Photographs. 9, in November.Twelve months ago to day I bid my dear, darling Bettie good by. How long the year has been. Heaven permitting I will
   never spend another away from her. I had rather live retired from the world and Know to all save a few honest neighbors
   & My Kinspeople & be with her all the while than live away from her & write my name high upon the scroll of fame.I am better this evening.Sunday June 19th 1864.Morning bright or neither foggy & pleasant.I am much better. Get up in the evening and sit up several hours  Eat a little toste & coffee for breakfast. The first
   of any thing to eat since Thursday morning.Attempt to write to my dear wife but can not as I am too nervous  Sit up until night. Go down to Supper. Continue to improve.Monday June 20th 1864.Morning very fine. Feel pretty well. Write to my wife dating the letter yesterday theday it ought have been written. Write also to my father.Cols. Carter, Furgesson, Peoples, Jackques & are brought from the barracks to our quarters:
   (This entry should have been made yesterday).Went out in the evening got a little sick in the sun.Rec.d one letter from Capt. R. A. Bennett, one from Lieut  Mitchell & one from Capt. Blackman.Tuesday June 21st 1864Up early morning pleasant & bright. Write to Mrs. Medora Thayer, Hoosic Falls N.Y. to Capt. R.A. Bennett & to Sam. Rec.
   one letter from ny Sister Holly, one from Lieut. Crosway, Sellers, Rucks.Nothing bad or very good to day.Wednesday June 22nd 1864.Morning bright & pleasant. Write to Sister Holly, send her my Photograph. Write to Capt. Blackman & Lieut.
   Mitchell.Rec.d one letter from John & his wife and two from my wife. Nothing new of great importance. Gold 205_6 Sellers
   asking 208_10.Thursday June 23d 1864Morning pleasant, warm.Write to my dear Wife, to Penelope & John & to Howell this morning. Rec.d an order to be in readiness to go
   to Hilton Head S.C. Five General & 45 field officers have to go. Gen. Gardner arrived here on his way.Day closed very warm and to increase the temperature I had a shell of headache.Friday June 24th 1864Morning very warm.Write to my dear wife my last letter & also one to my father  Sending them each a large Photograph of " our
   Mess ". & sending five Small Photograph. Capt  Thomas Brodon, Oaks, Lt. Andrews & My own. Mine is for Prudie.
   I wrote Martha send her & Bettie Johnson a Photograph each.The list comes, my name among others to go to Charlston. Cols Duke Morgan Tucker & my self Maj. Steel, Wibber &
   High of our old crowd go.Gens Archer Stuart Thompson (Brgd 5) Johnson & Gardner Maj Gens go. Those who are to go to Charlston come up to ourquarters. All the rest of our mess & the crowd who were in the Fort go to the barracks.Write to Capt Bennett. Send him my old boots  Gen  Thompson having given me a very good pair of new ones. The Gen. is a Noble
   hearted fellow. Every thing is pel mal this evening.Saturday June 25th ,64Morning very warm. Up early & quite a stir around the building. Write to Sam & send him my Photograph.I wrote to the boys at Point Lookout yesterday directing my letter to Van Sellers. Forgot to mention it in my record of
   yesterday.It is said that all our command with several hundr other officers arrived here to day from Point Lookout, I asked permission
   to see Lieut Ruck but heard nothing from my application. We are kept in considerabl suspense all day. The transport not arivingRec.d a letter (The first from him) from Willie G. Bransford and also one from Lieut Bridges.Day passed of very unpleasantly with the heat, the suspense & the desperate headache which I had.Sunday June 26th 1864.Morning very hot. Segeant Polzer anounses the arival of the Transport. I hastily write a note to Mrs  WardPurchase two common indifferent Calico shirts at $2_ each. Am now waiting in readiness for my departure to be
   ordered.I have no apprehensions of any great danger from guns where we are going but dread the affect of the climate,
   hot sun & treatment that we will receive there. If however it were not for the deep sorrow that it will
   bring on my dear Wife & father & sisters & all my kin & friends I would not care one whit for it.Had just as soon go as not. But the effect on them will be dreadful, particularly my wife,March out to the boat and go aboard under a guard commanded by Capt. Young. Maj. Strong of Gen. Fosters staff is
   in command of the boat M.A. Boadman. We moved out of the river getting into the bay in about an hour. A little
   gust of wind accompanied by a little rain came up about five o clock in the evening.I had a desperate headache. Gen Shoepfs had the five Gens. My self & four other Cols. put in the top cabin
   which is much more comfortable.That even is very warm. I did not get sea sick. Out of sight of land by one night.Monday June 27th 1864.Morning bright & pleasant  Sea swelling pretty smartly.Some sick. I am not except the headache, It is better.Pass Fortress Monroe at 7 O,clock this morning. See nothing of interest to day. Get not much sea Sick, Have the
   headache.A shower came up in the evening which cooled the air very much.Tuesday June 28th 1864.Morning very rough. Most of our men rather sick. Passed Cape Hateras in the night. Also pass a blockading vessel
   off the Cost of North Carolina.Day cool & calmed off inthe evening. Have to stay in my bunk all day. Have eat nothin since I ' ve been on board. Lay in my bunk &
   think of my dear wife & the trouble this trip of mine will bring on her.Wednesday June 29th 1864.Morning very pleasant & quite calm. Have in sight of Morris Island & the blockading fleet off Charlston at
   9 Oclock A.M.We are now there while a blockader is approaching us and I am stretched on my back looking at her approach &
   trying to write while our ship, or boat rolls from side to side.The Blockader comes up, passes around us & ask several questions which were answered & They waddled off
back to Campremain in sight of land along down the coast of S.C. Meet a steam boat at 1 P.M. with Gen Foster on board. Maj.
   Strong goes on board with papers etc & returns. We each go our way.The boat with Gen. Foster was bound for Stons river. A few miles farther we find a small schooner anchored &
   put one of the men off of our vessel on her & piloted her on in our wake. We continue in sight of land & it now appears on our left as well as the right We arrive at Hilton Head at 5 P.M.
   and anchor.Find many vessels of many Kinds here. Savanaah areAt dark we moved up under the guns, (72) of " Warbash ". Anchor all night.Thursday June 30th 1864.Morning bright & hot. Rest at ease until about 10 O clock When it is stated that Gen. Foster has arrived.Rumer this morning that the Alabama is not far off. Rumer now is (1 O,clock P M) the Gen has not arrived.Polser inquires if we will have some Chowder made of Clams. (Clam Chowder) We take it and find it pretty good.
   Not so good however as oisters. I write this more that I may remember it to tell my dear wife, than for any thing
   else.God bless her how I do wish she knewthat I am well, not cast down & contented as one of my nature can be under the circumstances. If it were not
   for her sorrow and that of my kind friends I dare& defy this
   danger & trouble with a gleeful spirit.Great as the cross is it can be born for the sake of my country.July 1st 1864 (Friday)Morning passed in calm anxiety & uncertainty. In the after noon we were ordered in to the hole of an old sale
   vesal where the temperature is about 120 o. It is almost intolerable.Capt. Young will not let but ten to remain on deck at a time.Had to pay the Stuart on the M.A. Broadman 50$ for a little coffee a little butter & one dish of soup worth in
   all about 10$.Saturday July 2nd 1864.Weather very warm, particularly in this hole. Write to my wife & to Capt Bennett. Send the letters out by Capt
   Young.Had a bad headache in the evening, slept out on deck. Very pleasant.Sunday July 3d 1864.Morning more pleasant, particularly to me as I was out all night. Vesals all in their Sunday rigs. Blue Jacks Flags.
   Freshwater Sailors with white shirts with large blue collars, Sail out all day. BetterMonday July 4th 1864Slept out again last night. Very warm this morningA salute of 21 guns was fired by the Warbash this morning. Maj. Strong came aboard yesterday, for no other purpose
   but to tantelise us with the statement that the news of Gen. Boraguards capture with 15000 Men had been confirmed.I do not believe it. A Salute of 21 guns at 12 & the same at 6 P.M.It rained a hard shower & quite a squall this afternoon. It has cooled the atmosphere vastly.Tuesday the 5th July 1864Morning pleasant. All day pleasant. Various reports as to the fighting at Charlston.Wednesday July 6th 1864.Morning pretty pleasant. Other reports from Charlston Sesession vill & Jas. Island taken etc etc etc.
   I do not believe them. Afternoon & night very warm.Thursday July 7th 1864.Morning warm & bright. I go up now to bath in sea water. It is very pleasant. Day very warm. We are to day
   permitted to go on deck, twenty five at a time.Friday July 8th 1864.Morning very warm. Write to my wife & Father this morning.Gen. Johnson rec.d a letter from Gen. Jones yesterday stating that he had no official information of our being
   here etc.Saturday 9th Sunday 10 Monday 11th Tuesday 12th Wednesday 13 & Thursday the 14th.We lay at the same point on the same desperate, disagreeable old boat. The Dragon! during all the above days without
   any change.Most awful suspense and a most horrible condition. If our Government do not retaliate for our treatment here there is
   no retaliation in it.I have been too sick to write all the time inebracidin the above note.Am much better to day. Feel pretty well all day. Write to my dear wife & father this evening. Will send the
   letters by Capt Young to morrow.Friday 15th July 1864.Day pretty pleasant Condition not changed. Great excitement as to what will be done with us. I do not partake much in
   the wrangle. Am a little unwell to day. but not much so.A steamer from N.Y. Came in with news not unfavorable for our cause so far as we can see.Gold is reported at 350.00 . I do not much believe it.Saturday July 16th 1864Crouding around with more enthusiasm than reason. We have on board some of the most vltre
   fanatics. I mean men who are credulous to a fault, rush to conclusions with out reason or rather against it & and most
   obstinately persist in in assertions. No news.Wrote to my wife this morning.Sunday July 17th 1864.Last night very pleasant. Getting warm however at this writing 8 O clock A.M. Spent the day slowly though the temperature
   is quite pleasant.Monday July 18th 1864.Day pleasant and passedoff as usual. This old ship is a bore to me now.Various reports are afloat in referance to when we will move, where we will go to & what will be done with us.Rec.d a lttle " Extra " news paper giving us good news. It states that our forces are in front of and in the
   environs of Washington. I think the move into Maryland will not amount to much.Tuesday July 19th 1864.Morning pleasant. Looks a little like raining. Warm all day.FridayWednsdy July 20 Thursday 21 bothwormIn the evening a squallarose. Quite a gale blew & draged our ancor about the fourth of a mile. Had to let down the large Anchor.
   Rained some.Friday July 22nd 1864,Morning warm & a little rainy. Raised the anchors this morning & was towed up near th Warbash again.Got some tainted backon this morning, refused by the soldiers. The first meat we have had in three days.If it were not for what we purchase we could not live.Write to my wife & to Howell to day.Saturday July 23th 1864.Day pleasant. Smoky, breezy & cool. Various rumers but no changes.Sunday July 24th 1864Morning pleasant. Every man bustling around. Guard expecting to leave. Write to my wife & to
   Lieut. Bridges. Send the letters by Capt Young who is a very clever gentleman as far as I know the
   opinion of others to the contrary not with standing.He will deliver the Lieuts in person & mail my Wifes at Ft. Delaware Capt. Young & his guards
   leave to day and the 157 Pa. relieves them.Monday July 25th 1864.Morning more pleasant, clear and calm.Several men are writing letters to go by Flag of truce to morrow.Water boat (an old steam ferry boat came to day comes every Monday) tle?
   bring us water.Tuesday July 26th 1864.One month ago to day we left Ft. Delaware. Gen. Johnson & Gardner rec.d a box of notions to day from Fed. Gen.The Chaplain of the 157 N.Y. troops was on board of our ship a short time.A rumer, but soon contradicted that Petersburg & Atlanta had been taken.Day closed as usual.Wednesday July 27th 1864Morning very warm & a little cloudy. Gen G. invited Col. M. to drink of the Ardent he rec.d yesterday. A Col ____
   of the Gen. had left concluded that the invitation embraced him & a certain Maj. who were not far off at the time
   the invitation was extended & went to demijohn & took a lot of whiskey & he and the said Maj got drunk
   before breakfast on whiskey which was not theirs & which they nor either of them were invited to drink.The said Col. went afterwards & took some more whiskey & gave it to another Maj. who is also a DrI will not mention names for the act so disgusted me that I never can forget it. I wish I could.The Col. hid a part of the last lot he took on a sheff shelf in my bunk. I can never have any respect
   for the said col any more after the above acts connected with the Motto he expressed to the Maj. after their ill gotton
   drink, which Motto was too vilgart to write.Four things he said he would always have " An Umbrella when it rained, a horse Whiskey & ____________Save Oh! save me from in. toxicating drinks. It make a man a vulgar vagabond and a dis honest wretch.The two nice gentlemen are now asleep. After awaking they did not seem at all ashamed.I am fearful I am becoming dis gusted at the human family & am Satisfied that I have cause to be.I know that I have seen acts of dis honesty in men who in society are considered gentlemen.Thursday July 28th 1864.Weather warm. To day the War bash left here. We were toed around under the guns of another boat. We " our Mess "
   had a very bad bread pudding for the cooking of which we paid 25 cts.Friday July 29th 1864.Morning pleasant. A little cloudy. Day moderately pleasant. A little showery.Great new & blowing about our exchange. Some say that Capt. Mc Williams says we are already exchanged and that
   the officers at Charlston will be down in a day or to morrow. I do not believe any of the reports: only the one
   that we will be sent to Morris Island & put under fire for a while.We have some men so enthusiastic on the subject of exchange that they are almost insulting to those who will not
   arise to theirdegree of enthusiasm. I heard a man to day tell Gen. Thompson that he did not believe he (Gen. T.) wanted to be exchanged.
   I believe the Gen. is true a patriot & as brave a man & the Col. who thus taunted him.There is much more wind than worth in some gents who claim to be leaders.Saturday July 30th 1864.Morning warm. Rumer that the Cosmopolitan (Foster ' s Steam boat) is in. I do not believe half I hear.Much excitement on the subject of exchange. Maj. Strong comes aboard & assures us that we will be exchanged.Sunday July 31st 1864.Had a heavy gale & rain last night. To day is pleasant with a little rain.Capt McWilliams bring a few letters aboard and assures us the negotiations for our exchange have been completed
   & that we will leave here on exchange next Wednesday. Great excitement. I write to my wife in anticipation
   of the exchange. Also write part of a letter to my Father.Monday August 1st 1864.Up early & all a stir. This experience as a prisoner has given me an opportunity to learn much of human natureby which I hope to be profited.I learn more fully than I ever knew it before that there is not half the difference in the real mental ability of men
   as one would at first think.Most men who have character for very superior talents when sounded, are found to possess ordinary sense with a super
   abundance of brass & much self esteem. Vanity. egotismOne of the greatest vices of men who have been with me is their disposition to prevericate, to tie, in order to make
   themselves heroes. My best friends make themselves great men by long windy tales. This would not beso revolting to me if they would in immortalising themselves permit other more worthy & more modest than they are
   to live. They build up their fame dis regarding the rights of others.Rumers rife in referance to our exchange. Old Copt of the Dragoon say we will leave to morrow.Tuesday August 2d 1863.Much excitement & anxiety all day. I write to Willie Bransford to Sam, to Col. Fite, to Lt Rucks, to Capts Harper
   Bennett & Ellis.We thank God leave theDragoon & go on board the Cosmopolitan, a fine steamer & leave the harbor at 10 P.M.Get supper on board at 50 cts. each. Have a nice state room & spent a pleasant night, eating at a table with a
   cloth, though I regret to say not much else on it & sleeping in a pleasant bed with sheets, though not very clean
   on it.I owe Col. Duke 2 1/2 & Webber 1 1/8 dollars.Maj Strong & his assistant Max are very polite. All the fullCols & Gens are above, The other officers are below though all comfortable.Wednesday Augst 3d, 64.In Charlson harbor  Have not looked around yet. Fine morning. See the five small houses scattered over the head of
   Morris island which were erected for our occupancy.They look not at all inviting as there is not a sprig of vegitation near them. All white sand around.We are in sight old Fort Sumpter and see the enemy shelling it from Cummins point of Morris island. Point where we
   were to have gone.At 10 O,clock over old rusty looking shell of a steam boat arrived along side the Cosmopolitan. Our steamer is named
   Chesterfield & a hard looking boat it is.We came unto the warf amid the deafening cheers of the gallant soldiers in the different batteries. We passed Sullivens
   Island. It is well defended. Old Fort Sumpter looks as though it is nearly done for. It can offord to fall now for like
   a noble heroe its glory is full.Rev.d Mc Gadsden (C.P.) presented on behalf of the ladies of the Soldiers relief Association a beautiful reath of flowers.
   Gen Johnson rec.d it on the part of the officersin a brief speech which had no merit but brevity & earnestness. The Gen. is a much better fighter than he is talker
   Gen. Jeff Thompson also made some few remarks. It is was a glorious opening for a fine speech, but
   poorly filled.I was introduced to the Rev.     Porter of     Street who carried Lt. Col. Swingly & myself home with him. He is as
   nice a man & good a Christian ospearantty as I have met with in a long, long time.I hope never to forget him & his good Lady & three little boys & bright & smart onesthey are too, and his dear little delicate orphan niece. No man could under the circumstances be made more Comfortable.Charlston in this instance has done all that could be expected of Charlston great things as may be looked for from her.If she be arrogant & arristrocatic & selfish as the Yankees charge her I thank God for such arrogance Arristocracy
   & selfishness as it is.I am sick this evening with diareah. Have a good plain dinner though Cheap which illustrates how Cheaply a family can liveand at the same time live well. All in all this has been a glorious day.Thursday the 4th August, 64.Some better though not well this morning. Go to Gen. Johes H. Cers.Get leave
of absence 30 days. Get transportation to Savanah, Macon, Americus Atlanta &to Selma.Then get from pay master Maj E.A. Desland $1050.00 pay up to 30st of June 1863. (5 Months pay), from which time pay is yet due
   me. I then got passport to Macon Ga.Learn this evening that the connection between Savanah & Maconcan not be made owing to the raiders under Stoneman having destroyed the bridges along the road. I therefore abandon my
   contemplated trip to visit My sister, Miss Maggie & Dr. Lapley & My friends in the Army at Atlanta.Regret My disappointment much but feel on reflection that is better for me. God grant I could see my dear wife! She is the only
   one however whom to see would pay to take such a trip in this oppressively hot weather & over bad & slow roads &
   rough & scarce fare.Spend the afternoon in doors very quietly. Write pr, flag of truce to my dear wife.Wrote also to Josie.Friday August 5th 1864.Visited again the Hos Srrsof the Gen. I,m P.M. Pno mersh
   etc etcGot Transportation to Richmond giving up that I had procured Purchased six common stars for my coat colar at 45$. Extravagance,
   Might have been dispensed with. Returned to my boarding house. Wrote to my father per flag of truce.I find the wealthiest citizens of the place living poorly though better than I had supposed they were. They live on vegetables
   to a very great extent. Here is the first Oaker soop I ever eat. It is first rate.They also use great quantities of fruit. Such as Figs, Mellons. Water Mellons sell from $3 to 10$ each. Peaches two for a dollar.
   Other things in proportion.Mutton sells for 2.50/100 per poundBut very little meat ex cept Mutton  Chickens, ducks etc is used. I saw no bacon except the chippings of a very old ham. The
   bread is the poorest of any thing else in its place. Citizens purchase very sorry bakers bread, I used some bread made of rice
   meal. It is a pretty good make shift.The streets are full of negroes selling Srimps, Crabs and various other kind of fish, of which a great many are used by the
   inhabitance. I eat a shrimp pie for dinner & found it pretty good. With all the necessary condrament it doubtless is delicious.The Rev. Wm. Porter with whom I am stopping is doubtless very wealthy, though he is prudent sensable and charitable.Gives much to the poorand will not buy what he can do without.I spend the day as quietly as possible that the heat may be less oppressive. It is very warm. Staid in doors nearly all day.In the evening after Tea Mr & Mrs Porter the Dr. & Myself & Col. Swingly took our seats in the Second gallery where
   there was quite a breeze & consequently very pleasant & lessened to some first rate singing.A lady who sings very like Miss Maggie Lapley & some of her beaux sang some good songs while she performed on the piano.
   Among others the old song once one of my favorites," Do They Miss Me at home " was most elegantly performed & sung. Of course that wafted my memory home & to
   loved ones there, if indeed the other surroundings had woved it away.I think no two minutes of my time after that that evening was occupied on a subject not connected with home & my dear Bettie
   & & dear sisters & father & Mother & Kin & friends.Oh God, will this accursed war never end!Saturday August, 6th 1864Arose at 5 O,clock, Had quite a light breakfast. Mr Porter warlked with me to the depot " Jim " carrying my baggage.I met Col. Fergesson Mj. Webber and Patton & Brewer there. The cars are quite crowdedbut we crammed in and sufficating as it was arrived at Branchville about 12 O,clock." M " The train we were on went on to Augusta. We took the Columbia train. Reached Orangeville. Saw a Motherly old lady whom
   it is said has passed down to Branchville & back every day for the last two years & more with her basket of provisions looking
   after sick & wounded soldiers.She is a very kind looking and active old lady of about forty five or seven years from appearance.Pass the Congaree river & swamp to Kingsville from which one road goes to Wilmington & one to Camden.Just before dark we arrived at Columbia. It is a magnifficent city, for order, form, cleanliness neatness and for systim can not be
   surpased.The cars are so crowded here that we being in the ladies car have to yield our seats and through the kindness of Col. Black of heavy
   Artilery at Charlston, the conductor gave seats in a little office in front of the express car.We spent quite a comfortable night after we got coal & I slept well. Got so chilly before day that I had to put on my coat.Met Capt Franklin & Col Pitts at Branchville. 5 Sunday August 7th 1864.Arived at Charloott about day. Had a warm travel on to Salisbury where to my satisfaction to some extent Patton left us for the purpose in my opinion of consealing himself in the hills at some relations house not to be
   again heard of during this war. I do not think he has any Command at least he has been in the hands of the enemy near all the war.We are very much crowded. Have some rough looking woman aboard to day. I saw tow mischeevous young gentlemen make a bet as to whether
   a certan woman who had just come in chewed tobacco and one of them, to decide the bet went to the fellow who was sitting by her &
   stranger as he was, askedhim for a chaw. He had none but she drew out a plug, 50 cts. worth & kindly offered him a quid. He accepted, kindly & politely
   thanked her & returned to his companion & demanded the wager.We pass Souisville & Thomasville & other little stations & through some desperately poor country. I would not agree to live
   for life on any plantation between this & Charlston (that I have seen) if I were presented with it.I am very unwell. Headache from over heat & exercise. Consequently stop here until to morrow at this hour.I am at High Point at a Mr. Barbee ' s Hotel  He has a sistervery young who weighs over three hundred I understand She is a whale in appearance.For the 1st time in over twelve months I drink a glass of Milk. It is good butter Milk and I use it freely, taking about a quart. It
   cures me almost instantly. I live very well on Milk, corn bread & butter.Monday Augst 8th 1864.Morning very warm. I feel better.Will go on to Greensboro a distance of 16 miles at one O clock to day. Arrived at Greensborough at 2 1/2 O clock P.M. Met Webber &
   Patterson. I also met Col. Carter, Lt. Col. Smith & Gen Archer on the cars & parted with themat Greensboro.I stop at one Mr Edward ' s a pretty nice place. Call on Dr. Hynes & spend an hour after supper. He & other gentlemen
   persuade us that to return to High Point & take the Stage thence to Wythville is the most pleasant & expiditious rout to
   Abingdon.Tuesday August 9th 1864.Morning pleasant it having rained a fine shower yesterday afternoon.Procure tranportation to Wythville via the stage rout return on the 10 O ' clock train to High Point. The stage is so crowded
   with soldiers and young ladies going to Salem to school that we have to remain over until tomorrowProcure a good room. Take a wash & a nap and then write to my dear wife. Spend the day & night quietly.It is rumered that Lt. Piper passed up on the one O clock train to day on his way to Abingdon. I was sleeping at the time the train
   passed. Would truly like to have seen him.Mr. Barbee is a very clever man I think. I think that Some Tall Courting is going on about the house. The Clerk is smitten.Wednesday Augst 10th 1864.Morning quite pleasant though promising a hot day.Write to Capt. John Allen at Petersburg. purchase 1$ worth Conf.d stamps.In traveling around I pay 10$ per meal. 25$ for staying all night with supper and breakfast & the dimes that used to satisfy
   servants have grown into dollars.The freight train is passing my window it will soon be followed by the passenger when I will leave for Salem on the stage.This " High Point " is quite a pleasant healthy looking little place " out in the woods.Myself, Maj. Webber two nice little girls & seven others, soldiers on furlow the most of themleave High Point on a good four horse coach at 1 O Clock A.M. & after quite a pleasant travel reached Salem N.C. about 6
   O ' clock in the After Noon.We put up at quite a nice & commodious Hotel kept by Mr. Chissum  I met Gov. H.S. Foot who requested me to write to him if
   there was any thing that he could do for me & he would take pleasure in doing it. He had his family with him.Col John Sneed of Knoxville is also at Salem with his family. He & Gov. Foot rec.d me very warmly & was very communicative
   I met several other refugees from Tenn hereAlso one Mr. Ayers from near Abingdon Va. who is quite clever & invites us out to see him on our arival at A. Pay bill before
   retiring $20 & 16$ for Patterson.Thursday August 17th 1864.Take breakfast & Mr Chissums at 6 A.M. & leave Salem on a two horse hack at 6 1/2 for Mount Airy. Mr. Vest one of the
   proprietors of this line and one of the drivers is quite clever.Webber, Myself, Patterson & two passengers (Soldiers) we had yesterday make up our crowd to day. We pass over very poor country.Citizens ignorant and very poor. At the first stand we get some fine peaches. At the secondstand lives old Mr. Gordon who is the father in-law of my old friend Dr. Davis Sister. I did not see her. A few miles after we left
   the stand I met Dr. Davis & a Mr. Gordon. The old Dr. was delighted to meet me, offered to treat me on good brandy of which he
   said he had one hundred gallons and was selling it out at ($100.00) one hundred dollars per gallonThe old fellow was truly glad to see me. He has been absent from home about one year. His Mother has recently died etc.We arvie in Mount Airy at 8 O, Clock P.M. Pass old Mr. Armfields just before getting to the littletown. He is a brother or near relative of Gen. Armfield of Tennessee.The old land lord pays $10,000 tax. Is rich & niggardly. Near on to one bushel of chinches inhabited each bed in the room we
   were put in to sleep. Bill 10$ for supper & lodging.This day we taking dinner at Mr. Daltons, quite a nice place. We get a good dinner for 5$. This is in sight of the Palot Knob,
   which is a magnifficent sight to behold. We travel in a few miles of it rather around its base near a half day.Friday August 12th 1864.At 1 1/2 O clock A.M. we move on a rough two horse hackHillville Carroll County Va. Pass up the Blue Ridge a pretty good grade but five miles from base to top. Reach Hillville at 10 1/2
   O, clock A.M. Get a good breakfast with a very nice lady for 5$.Take Mr. Moores four horse coach & have a pleasant ride to Wythville arriving at 8 1/2 O clock P.M. We come down the Mountain,
   pass some Copper Mines & some first rate farms. Cross New River by ferry.At Mythville we find a good Hotel & meet Lt Barlow & other acquantances. Tom Cosly, Cotton Fisher,
SuckWilliams & others of my Regiment are there on business. Also meet Vandaventer who staid in the same room with us.Saturday August 13th 1864.Meet several acquaintances this morning & am introduced to quite a number of gentlemen. Judge Burnett of Ky. among the rest.
   Also Mr. Mc Huthfrom Tenn.Take dinner with Mr. Mc Gavvock & form the acquaintance of his family. He loans me a horse to ride out to see Capt Kirkpatrick.Introduces me to his brother who is the owner of Ft. Chriswell where Kirk is staying. I ride out ninemiles on the Lynchburg road & find it to be a most magnifficent place. All the comfort, even luxuries are here.I am delighted with the pleasant place ice water & good eating & pleasant people.Sunday Augst 14th 1864.Go to Church with the family & visitors at Ft. Chiswell & hear old Mr. Smith preach a pretty good sermond. The
   old fellow is quite a poor humble old fellow. Goes home with Mr. Mc Gavvock & takes dinner.These Mc Gavvocks are relations of those at Nashville, of the Ewingand all their kin.The day is spent pleasantly very much improving me in feeling by thus resting.Monday August 15th 1864.Morning pleasant. Ride into town with Capt. Kirk and Mr. Mc Gavvock. Very warm. Find no material change.Take the train for Abingdon Va. at 4 1/2 P.M. & arrive at 9, O clock. Pass the Depot & stay all night with Mr.
   Mc Connell a very pleasant place & gentleman and lady.Tuesday August 16th 1864Walk into town. Very warm walking one mile & a half. Meet Gen Morgan andothers whom we know but a great many we do not know. The Gen is glad to see us.Drew six months pay $1260.00. Get leave of Absence thirty days & transportation to Richmond & back.I now have 2040.00 on hand. It will take near all that to take me to Richmond & outfit me with cloths & bring
   me back to this place.Wednesday August 17th 64.Meet Maj Steel. Get an order for a saddle.Write to Lieut W.H. Skillman & to I.F. Butler to Capture a horse for me.I think I ' le get a horse & saddle with but little trouble.Pay 20$ to Mr. Findly for staying with him, a tolerably good place, twenty four hours. Old man Finley is a
   brother-in-law of old Mrs Hogg. He had made talk to me about the old lady & her family.It rained very had this evening. The season has been wet in this section of Country. Corn looks well. No
   good hay has been saved.Took Tea with Col Tom Bayers & family. Mrs. Bayers is much conserned about her son Wm. Brown who is at
   Ft. Delaware in prison. I promise to do what I can towards having him exchanged. I ' le do it.Thursday August 18th 1864.Arose at 12 1/2 O ' clock A.M. Lt Cunningham & the men with him Lt Spir & Sgt. were of vast
   benefit to us, in getting a house to stop at, getting of on the train. Get on the train and reach wythville
   at 6 1/2 O Clock after about five hours run.See Lt Barlow & give him a memorandum to govern him in the finishing off a saddle for me.He request me to purchase 200.00$ to 300.00$ wort of " Coach trimmers bors nails at from 4 to 8$ per
   gross. 1 or 2 doz girth buckles 1 1/3. Plated ornaments 1/2 or 1 dozA few sets of plated bridle buckles inch or inch & a half, Seven is a set. These things I will try to procure.I also want to get a suit of cloths. Government Cloth. Pair of pistols: also for Webber Pair of Spears each.See the Secty of War in referance to my Regnt. And the Commission in referance to exchange, and other business.See Capt Fry & Maj Munday et als. Get one bridle blanket & each for Webber and Myself. Two tolerably nice
   shirts for Maj Webber.Catron Jones pass.d down to day. I gave him 10$  I think $30, $20 through mistakeFriday August 19th 1864.Up early. Morning rainy.Train arives. No one on it I know. Spent the entire day in the house except taking
   a long walk with Maj Webber in the evening out on the hills. Saw Lt. Col. Bob Martin on the train.Saturday August 20th 1864Up early & take a good bath. Walk up in town & see Mr. E. Mc Gavock who gave me a letter to Mr.
   Mc Farland Pos Fnis BW Richmond. I will try to have his son
   transferred to my Regnt.Saw also Kirkpaterick who is improving slowly. Webber moves up to town Wythville. I will leavein the morning for Richmond. I think I will call a while when I return here as this is a very nice family
   and a no, one house for these times.I am a little unwell to day having taken a severe cold. Had to decline an invitation from Capt. Ward &
   one from Mr Mc Gavock on that account to dine with them.Head did not ache much. Heavy rain. Maj Webber moves up in town.Sunday August 21st 1864Fine morning. Up early and prepare for the train. Pay 3 1/2 dollars to Walter (Servant) and four for washing.Pay my bill at the Hotel $60.00 and laeve for Richmond at6 O,clock A.M. Arived at Doublin depot at about 9, O,clock A.M. This place is burned an act of the Yankees on
   their raid in this section. Pass New river. Bridge has been burned. The one we cross is only temperary.Centeral depot is just east of New River bridge and it is a great wonder the Yanks did not burn it while they
   were destroying the bridge & Doublin, as it is a section of some importance & had much rolling stock
   & mashinery about it.Pass Salem a pretty sharp little town, just to north of the road 12 M. Big lick 1 3/4 O,clock P.M. Blayre '
   s Hotel (Mountain house) 2 1/2 O,clock.A veryhard rain is falling which orose unexpectedly as it is sudden. Dinner station.Thackston ' s Switch 3 P.M.Liberty 4 O clock P.M. as well as I can guess. Arived at Lynchburg at about 6 1/2 O,clock having been ditained for
   want of water. Stop at the Tremont (Depot) house.Lynchburg is certainly on the right hand (or South side of the road) as we travel from Tennessee to Richmond. I
   was clearly of the impression that it was on the other side just as I have really been mistaken as to other places
   & their localities recently. It teaches me not to be too posative of any thing.Monday 22nd Augst. 1864.Up early & walk up in town. Very warm. Pay my bill 15$. Tolerably good house. I did not take supper, so my bill
   is high.Leave Lynchburg at 8, A.M. Concord (Yanks burd the depot). at 9 1/2 or about that time, we run very slow being 1 1/2
   hours coming from Lynchburg to their place. 13 miles though it up grade all the way from the river & nearly all
   the way from L. here.Farmville some from L. Arive at 2 Oclock P.M.  Very extensive hospital here & appear to be well arranged. Arived
   at Farmville about 3 O,Clock, met a dispatch to halt for further orders.Supposed that a raiding party was outbelow. At 5 another dispatch comes, go on. Col. Cobb lives here. We arive at the place where once stood Burksville
   or " the juncture "  It is now a ruin having been burned by the Yankees under Hunter.We arived about 6 O,clock, after the Danville train has passed & have to lay over until 4 O,clock A.M. There being
   no dwelling nor Tavern near we sought & obtained supper & lodging (pretty good) in a " Way Side Hospital "
   which is located here in what was once the Tavern.Tuesday August 23d. 1864.Left the hospital at 4 A.M. & arived at Richmond atabout 9 A.M.  The usual bustle & stur & squalling about the depot.I pass immediately to the spotswood, put on a clean shirt & go down to breakfast. Meet Jas Price, formerly of
   Lebanon Tenn. at table. Also meet Col Duke in the office.Spopswood is on Main st. next South at Bank st. Call on Capt. Fry a noble fellow who is very popularSee also Wm. Mc Corcal. Both of them are in the P.O. Department. Run around with Col. Duke to purchase cloths etc.Go to the ordinance depot. Went & purchase for my self & Maj Webber eachone Blankett (Saddle)           $25.00
   one Hater bridle & bit       40.00
   one pr. brass spurs               8.00
   Making in all (each)             146.00
   paid out in that deptment.Dinner comes on. We have a pretty good dinner though much more style than substance.The aggony in the way of " airs " is piled on to Keep pace with that in price. All a humbug. A ppiece of
   midling broiled on the coles with a piece of corn bread eaten in camp would constitue a dinner more palatable than all
   the " A La Mode s " I wearied through with to day.Mailed one letter to my wife, one to father & one to Mrs. ThayerWrote to Capt. Bennett to Howell and to my wife. Visited the Hospital. Saw John Lapley, Jim Hale Henry dawson &
   several others of the old 7th.All improving except Henry. Poor fellow he will never be well, having gotton consent of his mind to die, thinking it
   requires less effort to do that than to live. Wrote to Sam & Howell & my dear wife to night.Wednesday Augst. 24th 1864.Shave, shampoon & hair cut, $6.00  Go round to the Sentinal office & subscribe for the Sentinal for one Month
   $3 1/2  Send it to Maj Webber at WythvilleTravel around the town a good deal with Allen, Fry and others, Spend some money for peaches etc & fifteen dollars
   ($15) for a very common pair of Suspenders. Sleep in no.73 with Allen.Thursday August 25th 1864.Go with Allen to the hospital & see Lapley & Hale. John D & Jim are doing well. Fry leaves this Morning
   for the country.Do not much to day but go all the while.Reced. two hundred & thirty three dollars & fifty cents of John Allen for Lt. Bridges which I amto hand to Bridges or to his Brother Dr. Jim or William if I should see them first. The $233.50/100 is in the new
   issue of Confederate Money & what Capt. Allen got for the ($350.) three hundred & fifty dollars that Lieut.
   Bridges gave him when he (Allen) left prison for ex change.The money was to be invested in bonds but as Allen could not invest it in that way he thought the best chance was to
   ex change it for the new issue. particularly as the 100$ bills he had were depreciating at the rate of ten percent per month.I take it as a matter of accommodation to Bridges & Allen as I will see Bridges befor Allen will. I am of course
   to pay Bridges in Confederate money though the receipt I gave Allen for it does not specify the fact.Pay five dollars for wasing & give Peter (Srvt who waits on my room) two.Friday Augst. 26th 1864Go to my taylors, find my cloths done. Pay him four hundred & fifteen dollars, $415.00) & take them away.
   Pleased as well or better than I expected to be.    ($415. Clothes)Purchase four shirts.Two common Callico   25$ each
   Two common Domestic  40$ eachStanford gets my commission  My Regmt. All right. Date 23d. Decr. 1862.Get an order from I.M.G. for cloth for cloths. Draw for Webber & Myself $2
   each $80 making $160. Get two pistols, Scabbords, belts etc. Pistols one hundred & twenty five dollars (125$) each. Scabbords Twelve dollars
($12.00) each. Belts 3$ each. Cartrage boxes $7.00 each & Carterages 3$e six 1.76cts ($6.76/100 for
   what I got six dozen.I left two yds. Confed. gray cloth for a coat & 2 yds. blue cloth for pants & vest with Dr.Sanderson. Capt. Fry ' s room to be kept there until I need them made up. I also left my measure at Mr. Wm. Holt
   Richerson 14th St. between Main & Franklin.To trim in full & makeing & trimming the suit cost 475$. I also left my measure where I got my present suit,
   M. Kennedy ' s on Franklin opposite the Sentinal office.His is not as good a house but much cheaper than the other. I purchased the cheapest shirts etc. of Hartz, Eighth St.
   between Franklin & broad.Settle My bill at Hotel Spotswood, corner of Main 9th ($146.00)Saturday August 27th 1864.Leave Richmond after breakfast at 6 O,clock. Changs Cars at Burksville, & reach Lynchburg at 5 P.M. a distance of
   about 140 or 145.Meet Alston & Kirkpatric there. Both in a great stue about a transfer of our command to another. Forrist ' s
   Stop at the Piedmont house, a rather poor canser.When I visit Lynchburg again if I can I ' le stop at the Novel house on Main street. Linchburg is on the North side
   (right hand going to Richmond) of the rail road. Bill supper & lodging 15$.Sunday August 28th 1864Leave at 5 1/2 O,clock A.M.Take breakfast 7$, at the Mountain house at about 9 1/2 O,clock A.M. Reach Wythville at 4 1/2 O,clock a distance of
   132 1/2 miles. See Gen. Eckels who succeeds Gen. Morgan in the Command of the department of West Virginia.Dose not strike me a great General. Stop at Col. Boyeds again. It is quite a nice houseMonday August 29th 1864.Walk up in town on business. Meet Mr. Mc Farland & borrow Capt. Ward ' s horse & ride out to Ft. Chiswell.
   Spend the day & evening very pleasantly with the family & Capt Kirk Had much talk with Kirk in general.Tuesday August 30th 1864.Rode into town. Get My Saddle whith which I am pretty well pleased. Pay $7 1/2 more on the finishing
   off of Webbers & mine & gave $13 1/2 to the men employed in the shop making 20$ I have paid.On ariving at the Hotel Col. Boyed came to my room & invited me into the parlor to see the ladies,
   his daughters, who are very honsome & Misses Johnson from Abingdon. I went down & played the
   beaux a while in a very awkward way.Eat a long dinner with the ladies, returned to the parlor, had a little music & returned tomy room, seated myself on my bed & write these lines Left at 5 O,clock for Abingdon. Met Parson Armstrong on the way. We were glad to meet  He stoped at Marrion
   Smyth County. Arived at Abingdon at 9 1/2 O,clock Went to Mr, Thomas Findleys  Found Col. Tucker &
   others there.Wednesday August 31st 1864.Met Cols Duke Neil Morgan & others. & Gen Morgan. Get rations return for 27 days.Loan Sam Kirkpaterick ($50) fifty dollars saw Jim Love who is a little sick with feverThursday Sept 1st 1864.Morning chilly. Leave in a sack with Mr. Tho.s Findleyone jackett 2 pr. pants, 2 pr. drawers 3 pr. cotton socks, blacking & brush. Suspenders and
   various small articles that I can not carry with me. I will send for them when I need them.Col. Tucker takes a vest worth fifty ($50) dollars  Visit Jim Love. Find him better. He is with
   four old maids, his cousins the Misses Love.I draw from Q.M. Maj. Gasset twelve hundred & sixty dollars ($1260.00) six months pay, up to
   30th June 1864. Take tea with Col. & Mrs. Bayers.Friday August Sept. 2nd 1864Maj. Webber arived at Mr. Finley ' s  Is very much excited over the difficultties now existing
   in ourcommand.Meet and are introduced to Mrs. Duke this evening. She is very hansome. Talk a little to Col. Duke on
   the subject of our troubles.Pay my bill at Mr. Finleys or rather he paid me five dollars after I paid my bill & Webbers that
   being the sum that my 27 days rations exceeded the two bills. Leave at 9 1/2 O,clock P.M. & arive
   at 11 at the Lancaster house (which is on the north side the road) in Bristol. Rather poor accommodations
   there.Saturday Sept 3d. 1864.Webber pays my bill $10.00. Leaves at 9 A.M. for Jonesboro. Pass Carters, Johnson ' s & other
   depots and arived hereabout 12 O clock M. Called at Mrs. Eachin ' s but Gen. Eckels & Staff being there we did not
   attempt to procure accommodations.Made a failure or two; tried Mr. Capt. Dederick, who is the son-in-law of Gen. Jackson Mudwall and who
   has a remarkably nice wife & four beautiful little children. Mrs. Dederick after much doubting &
   fearing she could not accommodate us as gentlemen should be concluded to take Tucker & Myself.We find her & her family, husband included, very pleasant & are under many obligations to them.
   I wrote to GenMorgan reporting that we are here. Gen. Eckels & staff left on the train at about 2 P.M.  Rained some.
   Several Soldiers passing to the front.Sunday Sept. 4th 1864A little rainy  Hear news this morning of a fight at Greenevill (Greenville) and that Gen Morgan was killed,
   which I at first did not believe but which Alas! proves too true. From the best information I can get the enemy
   flanked our picketts and having been informed of our position, strength, the Gen Hd Qrs etc before 10 O,clock
   of the night on which our forces arived there, by one Mrs. Williams and others, rushedinto town in force of about 75 men. Surrounded his Hd. Qrs. captured all of his staff except his Q.M. Maj. Gasset,
   & shot him in the Vinyard as he was attempting to get away.They threw him over a fence as they would have done a dead brute, put him on a horse and paraded up the street in
   exultation over their prize, the Corps hanging across the hores as a man would carry a dead hog or other animal of
   the lower class.They showed the most fiendish disposition by their uncivilized conduct. After making a display of and shouting over
   the dead body as I am informed theyreturned it to Mrs. Williams ' the Motherinlaw of the wretch who informed on him. The old lady Williams I
   understand is Southern & she has one son who is or has been in our army. Her son, the husband of the woman
   who carried the news in this case as well as many others, is in the Yankee army.I borrowed a horse from a soldier, a Wm. Hall Co. H, 1st Tenn Cavalry & started to the front in the evening
   but met the command about five miles from Jones boro. Saw Cols Smith Brazelton, Bradford & all the boys.Slept in Camp for the first time in thirteen months. Cols Morgan & Tucker slept with me. We camped three miles
   west of Jonesboro on the Leesburg road near a Mr CampbellsMonday Sept 5th 1864.Morning threatning rain. Went to Col. Smiths Hd. Qrs., Mr. Mathews, a good Southern Man, 3/4 mile from Jonesboro.
   He is a truly southern man.I ride into town with Col. Smith & find that Col. (Gen) George B. Criendon is in command. He orders me to take
   command of the Brigade & escort the remains of Gen. Morgan in to the depot. Soon after we arived at Jonesboro
   a very hard rain fell.Met Col. Duke with orders from Gen. Eachles to take command of the Brigade of Gen Morgan's old men. He orders
   me to take command of 1st and Col. Tucker the 2nd BattalionWe commence the organization & disiplin of our coinllswe find them in a desperate state of disiplin.Tuesday Sept 6th 1864Staid last night with Mr. Mathews. Visit the picketts & one woman who professes to be southern but is
   suspicioned with reporting to the enemy.Take dinner with Mrs. Eachen in Jonesboro. Move out to a Bluntsville road two miles.Camp in a good campground but we are very much troubled by constant complaints of Women who are not above
   suspision, about the corn the men are taking.Wednesday Sept 7th 1864.Remain in camp all day hearing the complaints of old men and women about their corn.It is desperate hard that the corn the women have worked with their own hands to make must be taken
   to feed the Cavalry horses in the Army, but it can not be helped. Their husbands, the most of them
   are in the Yankee army trying to subjugate us.Thursday Sept 8th 1864.I wrote to my wife on the 5th instant & mailed it at Jonesboro. To day I write to my father &
   Sister Josie Capt Kirkpaterick & Col. Alston. Mail at Carters Station.Col. Duke leaves for Abingdon & leave me in command of the Brigade. I am vastly troubled by the poor
   women about their cornThey claim that the men are using it all up and some of them are to be pittied indeed.Friday Sept 9th 1864.Meet Capt. I.A. McKinney an old school mate & Mr Harris an old Co, legislator at My
   Hd. Qrs. Was glad to see them both. Road out with Butler to get a new camp  Have poor luck.Saturday Sept 10th 1864.Usual trouble about corn and other produce used by the men. There never was a much worse state
   of disiplin in any army I think than in this. I would not command such men if I not hope to
   improve them, forany consideration.Pay our bill $50. $12 1/2 - each, or a little over 3$ per day. Hunt Jack Door's &
   owe me $12 1/2$ each & Col. Duke 6 1/4$.Move to a new camp on the Johnston Station road 5 miles from Jonesboro, at Mr. Lyles' or
   Mr. Burk ' s.Sunday Sept. 11th 1864.Had a sermon from one Mr. Bates of Jonesboro. Took dinner with Mr. Lyles, and a first rate one at that.
   Col. Duke returns & assumes command of the Brigade.Monday Sept 12th 1864Had Gen. Inspection and dress parade on horse back in the evening.Tuesday 13 Sept. 1864.Morning very much like frost. I rested or rather spent the night most disagreeably. Wrote to my wife
   yesterday by flag of truce by way of Knoxville.Wednesday Sept. 14th 1864.Meet with Maj Webber and Capt McKinnie this morning yesterday the Inspt. Gen. for the Dept. was here,
   Gave this information as to transportation.Each 200 horses are entitled to one 4 horse waggon for forage. Every 375 - Men one 4 horse waggon for
   ordenance. Each Brigade one 4 hrs. waggon. Hd. Qrs., including Staff & line officers one 4 horse
   waggon. Every 500 men presentto one waggon for cooking utensils.Move camp to day to within one mile of Johnsons station. Get pretty good camp. Rains a very hard shower
   just after dark. I got very wet and remain so all night. Have no tent.Thursday Sept. 15th 1864.I leave camp with Col Tucker for Carters Station to sit as a Court of Inquiry on the Subject of the Surprise
   of our troops on the morning of the 4th Inst. at Greenville, where & when Gen Morgan was Killed.Maj Chenworth did not appear, nor did tha Adjnt. who was to act as recorder. So we had no meeting of the
   Court.Col. T. & I got rather sparce lodging & rations at one Mr. Mocks, a Miller by trade, who has a very
   pretty wife, who seems to be a nice lady.I meet Lt. slx, Allison of McClung ' s battery here, also
   Gen. Echols who modifies the order under which we are acting & places Col. Carter of East Tenn. 1st Tenn
   Regnt. on our Court in stead of Maj. C. & appoints another recorder, permitting us to meet at any place in
   the vicinity of the troops. Whereupon we conclude to meet at Johnsons Station 7 miles west of Carters.Friday 16th Sept. 1864.Move down to Johnstons depot where Col. Carter has alreadyprocured quarters for us. Col. T. & Myself Stop at a Mr. Job ' s a very nice family though Lincoln to
   the core " Saturday Sept. 17th 1864Open Court & examine Col Crawford, Capt. Balkman and Col. Guiltner, and adjourned until Monday morning.Sunday Sept 18th 1864.Morning rainy a little. Write to my wife, to Capt. John Allen & to Capt. John D. Fry. Stay in doors near
   all day.Monday, Sept. 19th 1864.Take the evidence of Col Bradford and Lt Arrance. Consult Cols. Lillard and Rose. Find they know nothing more
   than Bradford has stated& therefore do not examine them.Tuesday Sept. 20th 1864The breakfast bell ring, I go. Take proof all day, until 9, Oclock at night.The Commands move west.Wednesday Sept. 21st 1864.Arise at 3 O clock A.M. and move to Jonesboro ariving there about day light. Take breakfast at Mrs.
   Matthews & move on with Gen Vaughn. Commenced to rain at about ten O clock A.M. Dined at Raytown & spent the night at one Mr. Johnsons (Union)Thursday Sept. 22n 1864.Move at 3 A.M. in the dark rain & mud. It is difficult to get the Artilery & Wagons onpass Greenville about day light & Bluespring about 10 A.M. Fire a signal gun there but hear nothing
   of Gen. Williams.Meet the enemy in small force 1 Battn. of the 13th Tenn & skirmish them driving them back with a
   loss of 3 slightly wounded on our side & 7 killed & 15 prisoners on their. Their woonded if any
   all escaped.Spent the night with a very poor old Man & Woman with nothing but stalks of corn for our horses. Paid
   the old fellow $15 for the very poor supper & lodging we got.Friday Sept. 23d. 1864.Take proof at Mr. Hart wig mans & spend the night there Pay $10 board.Saturday Sept. 24th 1864.Take more proof & fall back towards & into Greenville. Stop at Mr. Vances a nice man & family.Sunday Sept 25th 1864Call out to see Gen Duke. Meet Col Breckenridge & find where the 4th Tenn was & go immediately.
   Meet Col Anderson Capts McGregger Moore, Barnes, Ab Johnson Jim Vance, Tom Gan  Banks Wilson William
   Bridges and various other acquaintences who gave me newsdirect from home they having been in Smith three weeks ago.They brought me tidings that my dear Bettie was well & had heard that I was exchanged. It gave me great
   Satisfaction to see & talk to the boys & greater still to hear from home.Move from Greenville a little after dark, it being under stood that the enemy are moving on Abingdon &
   Saltville through Pound gap.Arive at Leesburg at 6 1/2 O,clock & take breakfast & a nap.Pass Jonesboro & get dinner there, and on up to Johnsons Station  Stop at Mr. Jobe's & spend
   the night.Tuesday Sept 27th 1864.Travel by Zollecoffer on up to Bristol twenty five miles (25) ariving just before sun down. Meet with Jim Doss
   & Ed Reece. Stop at Mr Thomases, on the Danville road one mile from town.Wednesday Sept. 28th 1864Take the evidence of Capt Everett, Col. Smith & Maj Gassett. Draw 28 days rations. _____ Meet I.C. Stone.Thursday Sept. 28th 1864Loan Sam Kirkpateric $20.00" Goodloe of Co E. 1stBattn. $20.00 and Col. Tucker $100.00  Tucker now owes me $117.00.Write to my wife by flag of Truce & to Josie at Americus Ga.Friday Sept 30th 1864Hear various report, also hear Artillery at Carters Station.Saturday Sept 31st Oct 1st, 64Hear Artillery again in this morning. It is reported that all of our forces are ordered to fall back.Citizens in a great bustle to get out of town. Settle with Mr. Thomas My rations worth $45His bill is $40 paid me $5.00  I and my horse four days, 28 day rations.Write an opinion this evening for the court which will give Gen Eckals not much satisfaction, but he
   cant tell whether it is a good one or not.Move out 3 or 4 miles to camp. Spend the night in the rain.Sunday Oct 2n 1864.Move early on to Abingdon find every thing in a bustle moving from the town. Take dinner at my old friend
   Thos. Finley. No chargeWait for the Command which gets up about 12 n. Move on over a rough road to Saltville. Find it a
   desperately wet, ugly place.Our forces have been fighting the Feds all day. Killed a great many of the enemy, many of them Negroes.
   The federals also killed a large No. of them I am informed endeavoring to make them charge our forces.Poor deluded wretches much better would it be for them to remain with their Masters!Camp at Saltville.Monday Oct. 3d. 1864.Move at 7 1/2 O,clock A.M. Find the enemy had retired. Take a near rout through the mountains to flank them.
   Make a hard march over a very rough road and march, horrid marching until 10 O,clock at night.Horses very much qaded. Saw Gen. Breckenridge this morning.Tuesday Oct 4th 1864Move at 7 O,clock still through the mountains and arive near the front of the enemy at about 9 O,clockon the Clinch river where I am now waiting. Expect to fight them soon.After the enemy passed we moved again through the mountains & like to have intercepted the enemy but
   failed. If we had gotton in front of them we could have captured Burberage and all of his command, but with
   disappointment we had to return 9 miles & camp at the place on Clinch river where we spent a few hours
   this morning.Do not get enough forage, no rations. By good luck and a sudden move I got enough corn to feed my horseThursday Wedns. Oct 5th 1864.My birth day. Move this morning to a remarkably nice bluegrass lot of old Kendricks in Taswell Co. & feed
   bountifully & get two nice tender beeves & eat them without bread. Move at 12 n. over the rough road
   which we traveled yesterday morning out on the main road & camp. Plenty of beef & corn.Thurrsday. Oct. 6th 1864.Move early in the rain and cross Hiders gap, down on the North prong of the Holston & camp with out much
   forage & not enough beef. Poor con groond.Friday Oct. 7th 1864Moved early over to the Saltville road six miles from Abingdon.Pretty plenty of forage  Plenty of beef & bread spend the day here and about eight o clock at nigh  the
   coldest wind blew up which pierced every thing & rendered the night hidious.Saturday Oct. 8th 1864,Remained in camp all day. I roved round a good long ride taking Abingdon in my rout. A very disagreeable day.Sunday Oct. 9th 1864Very cold yet. Have orders to move towards Wytheville to day.Loan Lt. Jo Sellers one hundred (100) dollars this morning which added to the 20$ loaned to him the other day
   when he was sick  Make 120$ and $350. for the more bought ($470.00) four hundred & seventy ($470) he owes
   me, for which I must take his due billI also gave Goober $20 this morning which I never hope to get, as he is worthlessLoaned Charly Carney ($50) fifty dollars.Camp on the middle fork of the Holston river, beautiful country. Plenty of wood which we need & forage, also
   in good place. 3 miles of 7 miles foondMonday Oct 10th 1864.Move pretty early. Pass Marion, in Smyth Co. Tolerably nice little town.Camp in a woods with not much corn or hay, though as it is more pleasant weather do pretty well.Tuesday Oct. 11th 1864Move at 9 A.M. and feed one hour in some five miles. Pass Wytheville about 3 P.M. and go into camp three miles
   therefrom on theLynchburg road just where the railroad crosses the Pike. Have a very good camp and citizens are hauling in corn to us.Wednesday Oct. 12th 1864.Remain in camp all day Gen. Duke remaining in town having me in Command of and troubled with the brigade. Alson is also
   absent at Mr. McGavock so that I have to Command the Battn. & the Brigd.They are neither large enough in all consciense to trouble a man, yet I like to see men attending to their own business
   & not entrusting it to others.I forgot to state that I met Ellis & Dr. Haynie in town(Wythville) yesterday very much to my surprise & delight.Thursday Oct. 13th 1864.Have a thorough inspection to day. Gen George B  Critendon inspects, Gen Breckenridge on the field. Find him quit a nice
   Social fellow. I am still in comd. of the ongd. Don ' t like it.Friday Oct 14th 1864.Ride in town. Get leave of absence for 24 hours to visit Mr. Simmons to See Ellis & Haynie.Take a good wash and change of clothing at Col Boyds & leave five pieces to wash there. Buy a Knife worth $50.00Saturday Oct. 15th 1864.Staid with Ellis & Haynie all night at Simmermons. Had plenty good eating & a bad time, with drunken soldiers
   wanting whiskey at all hours of the night.Write to my wife, a note to Fry to Jos. B. Wilson Hale, & to a Mr. Watkins. and am now ready to
   go to camp but will wait until dinner.It is 11 O,clock A.M. now on ariving at camp I find Alston tight from whiskey drawn by Dr. Hammer in a camp chest
   & every thing went on badly.Find an order for 100 men from each Battn. to march tomorrow. Had a drill & Mrs. Duke and Mrs. Alx Morgan spectatorsSunday Oct 16th 1864.A Scout of 100 men from each Battn. left this morning, one under Maj Webber, The other under Col Morgan  All under Gen Duke.
   Going to Darblin. Day passed off quietly.I bought a bread tray of Simmermans old Negro at Seven (7) dollars. Carried into camp.Monday Oct. 17th 1854.Furnished Buttler $20.00 to buy an ax, chairs etc.  Also furnished Bob Anderson $30.00 to buy butter eggs milk, brand etc.Ride out to old Man Simmermons this evening with Dr Haynie to See Ellis. Find Ellis Mad. Has a mare he paid $5.00 for &
   agrees to let me have her at the sameif he can get one to suit him better.Tuesday Oct. 18th 1864.Morning cloudy & a fair prospect for rain. No rain. Spend the day in Camp with nothing of note to transpire.Wednesday Oct, 19th 1864.Spend the day in camp. At about 6 P.M. Maj. J. Stoddard Johnston A.A.G. for Gen Breckenridge came to camp informing
   me that about 50 or 100 deserters had passed near by our camp last night. And that I must take a detail of 60 or 70
   Men & pursue them. I left about 10 O,clock P.M. & passed over the Mountains on steels path, the same the
   deserters went. I learned there were 173 of them.I passed Mr. Crocketts, Mr. Smiths then went over two Mountains to Randel Grasens. Heard at all these places from them,
   All tales tallied as to No, etc.At Mr. Suiters I arived just at day light & got more information as they fed there on this day.Thursday Oct. 20th 1864.Moved on & fed about sun up at Mr. W.W.  and then rushed on. passed by where Prinston stood. It was burned by McCauslin,
   & then on to " Blue Ston " river at Mr Coffee ' s & Mr. Kegley ' s.I learned there that the home & Provo Guards' of Mercer & Bland Counties had run into the rear of the
   deserters & had dispursedthem capturing their horses.I camped a few hours at Blue Stone & fead until 11 O,clock P.M. then moved on & found that the deserters had dispersed.
   Passed Mr. Furgissons on the Main road three miles beyond " Rich Creek ". Came back & went on the " old
   State road " & found that they were on neither road hence I conclude the have dispersed.Build fires. Very cold. big frost.Friday Oct, 21st 1864.Deploid the Men & Scouted the Mountains to the Top of Flat top. I with the Guide Maxwell went across the different roads
   & I returned to camp. Going the Mountain from Rich Creek I saw clinging as it were to theside of the Mountain a gray horse with Waggon Saddle & fancy bridle on him; I with much difficulty assended to where he
   was, disentangled him & let him " slide down " the Mountain.I found him a four year old fine form & color, Nearly starved & famished with the soarest feet I ever saw on a horse.
   I succeeded in getting him to Blustone & had four old shoes put on him & got him to Camp with a struggle.All the scouts got in at night. I fed off of Mr. Coffee. Rained hard at night.Saturday Oct, 22n 1864.Moved early in a heavy snow. Snowed all day. Had 9prisoners bearfooted & several of my men were bearfooted & all destitute of Cloths. Suffered much. Let the men
   disperse to get in houses at night, I stay at old Man Davidsons.Sunday Oct. 23d 1864.Move early, cold. After the morning pleasant. Cross three Mountains pass Craborchard. Travel 33 miles to Wythville.Monday Oct 24th 1864.Rept. to Gen B.s Adjt. Gen. Satisfactory. Hear Capt Bennett is at Simmermans; go to see him in the evening. Find
   the old fellow " same as ever ". Buck is quite sick. Old Capt Wolff is also there. Spend the night pleasantly.Buy a halter of negro Cuz linsey at 10$Tuesday Oct. 25th 1864Ride into camp, spend the day quietly. Gen Breckenridge calls on me this evening, Spends an hour.Wednesday Oct, 26th 64.Go out to see Artillery practice. Poor shooting. Mrs. Breckenridge & other ladies were present.Take dinner at Col. Jo Kents. Had a pleasant talk with a Miss   Taylor    who lives in Eastern Va. Return to camp.Thursday Oct. 27th 1864.Rainy this morning. Stay all day at camp. Nothing new.Friday Oct. 28th 1864,Spend this day in camp Drill some.Saturday Oct, 29th 1864Do the same that I did yesterday.Sunday Oct 30th 1864Make no change from the work done yesterday. Capt Kirkpatrick visits the camp.Monday Oct. 31st 1864Remain in camp.Tuesday Nov. 1st 1864Spend the day in camp drilling etc etc .Wednesday Nov. 2n 64Ride out to McGavocks. Find Stephen & Aunt Cinthy Cloud &
   the rest ofof the family well. Lt Andrews is with me. Spend a pleasant NightThursday Nov 3d 1864.Spend the entire day at Mr. McGavocks ___ PleasantlyFriday Nov. 4th 1864.Return to Camp in the morning. Ride with Gen. Duke & Maj Webber out to Simmermans to see Bennett &
   others. Spend a pleasant day.The Gen has his heart very much on a re _ organization of his command.Get back to Camp find an order to March at 9 O clock in the morning  Rainy disagreeable day.Saturday Nov 5th 1864The Gen. gets Gen. Breckenridge to let us remain in camp all day to re organize & march at night. We
   move at 6 O clock P.M. Cold & disagreeable.I never marched a colder or a worse night, unless it was the night of the 6th of Decr. 1862 when we marched
   to Hartsville. We halted about 2 O clock. Made fires & tried to warm.Sunday Nov, 6th 1864Moved through Abingdon on to Prestons place five miles from Bristol  I come into town & get a shoe put
   on my horseand go up to Mr. Thos s. Stay all night!Monday Nov. 7th 1864.Morning very rainy.I lost a day in my running up the days past. We marched from where we stopped to warm through Marion to seven
   Mile ford & fed.It is 33 miles to Wythville. Thence on ten miles to Col Earnest & camped for the night. Still very cold.I stayed at McGavock on Wednesday & not Thursday. Then the record comes up correctly. Stayed at Mr Thomases
   at Bristol last nightWrite to my wife this morning & then moved on with Gen Duke the command having past on.Reach Carters Station. Camp, No feed!Tuesday 8th Nov. 1864.Move at 3 O,clock P.M. Feed at Johnson Station (Haynsville) and move on to Jonesboro.Wednesday Nov. 9th 1864.Move out & feed & then on towards Raytown. The advance of the enemy being reported in
   the mean time. Camp on a ridge, taking every precaution against a surprise.Thursday Nov 10th 1864.Moved six miles below Greenville, to Mr. Bibles & camped.Friday Nov. 11th 1864.Moved on early & our advancemet the enemy & skirmished with him back to the Gap. We halted took positions, formed lines etc in the
   big bottom on lick creek. Several flags of truce passed, Gen Brickenridge comes up. We move on. Engage the
   enemy, Drive him into the Gap. We fall back. He comes out. We drive him again. Repeat this movement several
   times before dark. Lay in line all night.Saturday November 12th 1864Arrangements all made for an assault. Move upon the enemy in his very strong position and works. We drive
   from his first line. This is by farthe most destrictive fire, for the time I was ever under.I got wounded in the leg & cut off from my command & got in the rear of the enemy. I thought I had
   " gone up ". After walking how ever, on a paining leg, in great doubt as to direction, some twelve
   or forteen miles over awful mountains I reached or hospital & had the ball taken out of my leg. I had
   not examined my wound. It looked much worse than it felt, though it did not feel well. I remain at the 
   hosptal all nightSunday Nov 13th 1864Rode up to See Gens B & D. & the boys. Return to Mr ______  The whole commandmoves at 8 P.M. for the rear. I start to Greenville. It is very cold but clear & bright moonlight  Reach
   Greenville at 3 O clock A.M.Monday the 14th Nov 1864Found Fracy & others pretty badly wounded. Moved on to Leesburg. Stayed with Mr. Dovall quite a clever man
   with a remarkably clever & handsome daughter.Tuesday Nov 15th 1864Move on to Mr. Burts, five miles from Jonesboro & halt. My leg grows worse. I stay here Wednesday the 16th
   and Thursday the 17thFriday the 18th Nov 1864.Loan Parson Bates the son in-law of Mr. Burt my horseto ride to Bristol, to be back tomorrow.Saturday the 19th Nov 1864I forgot to mention that I wrote my wife a letter on the 15th & sent it off immediately. I also
   wrote to my father on the same day & to capt Fry. Wrote to Col Tucker on the 14th & to my friends
   with him on the same day. Mailed at JonesboroSunday Nov. 20th 1864Rainy all day. All stay at home.Monday Nov 21st 1864.Mr. Bates goes to town. Rainy all day.Tuesday Nov 22n 1864.Very cold, Snow on theground. Write to my wife, to Howell & to Capt John Allen. My leg is improving. Also write a note to
   Gen Duke   Wednesday   Nov,       23d   1864
              Thursday    "     24th  1864
              Friday      "     25    1864Write to Capt Jo d. Glover & get 1/2 qr. paper  9 stamps & 8 envelopes. Will pay him for them when
   I see him.Saturday Nov. 26th 1864.Send again to Capt Glover, get some shoes & Nails.Sunday Nov. 27th 1864Mr. Hughes, editor of the Chronical & his lady leave here. Bad morning. Mr. Lilse visits me. He had not
   known beforeyesterday evening that I was still here.A party of two ladies and one gentleman came here this evening, after dark. The gentleman Mr. Harris
   & one of the ladies Miss Cain Married. Mr Bates performed the serimony. They went off rejoicing, I
   suppose.Monday November 28th 1864My leg is much better this morning. I will walk on it some to day & think I will be able to ride
   to morrow. If it gets no worse I will try for the Command to morrow.Tuesday Nov. 29th 1864My leg still improvs a little  I road over to Mr. ArcherPhillips this morning & got my horse shod. My leg is worse this evening. I must not start yet to
   the command.Wednesday Nov, 30th 1864.Still I do not think it prudent for me to ride. Mr. Bates moves his property to town to day. I send a
   letter to Capt Fry, one to my wife dated 29th InstJohn Fontain & Clark Lyles come here to day to sell a horse to Alfred, Mr. Burts boy, Miller, Lyles
   sells the horse, a small by 8 or 9 years old, for $10. in specie with a promise of the negro to give him
   $100.00 more in Confederate Money.I think Lyles & Fontain are both scamps. The former has no business away from his command. The latter
   is wounded. Both belong to Mussicks Company. I make Lyles give a recpt for the money & guarantee the
   title to the horse. If it turns out that he was stolen I ' le have Lyles punished to extent of my
   power & make him refund the money.Thursday Decr. 1st 1864.I ride into town to day (Jonesboro) & do not see that my wound suffered any from it. Saw Joe Glover,
   Dr. McFarlin, Bill Parrot & others.Friday Decr. 2n 1864.My leg is not quite so well thismorning owing doubtless to my ride yesterday. Adjt G.W. Hunt, Capt. Alx Morgan & others pass up to day
   and Hunt tells me that Gen. Duke is orderedup to Lee County Va. Elvery thing quiet at the front.Saturday Decr. 3d 1864.Capt Earnest & family arived last night. Mr. Bates is going to town to live. Earnests family will live here.I prepare to leave. Offer to pay my bill. The old gentleman Maj Jo Burts declines taking Confederate Money.
   He says he can do nothing with it, that he will charge one ($1.) dollar per day & I must pay him in
   something that he can use, at old prices. I have nothing to buy $18 in gold (forthats my bill) being there 18 days, it will cost me just six hundred dollars ($600.00)That is a wounded soldiers bill for 18 days at an original, perse ab inition sesessionists house. He & such
   men as he have brought on this war and are now tired of it. While I & such men as of my politics staved it off
   as long as we could & only went into it when the North attempted to coerce the southern states.I was much inclined, in my feelings to raise a rumpus with the old man when he asked me for my due bill, as I had
   nothing but Confederate to pay him in; but as it was a favor to me to get to stay there I saidnothing & gave him my due bill for ($18) eighteen dollars & will pay it in goldI hope, when the war is over. I think it as bad treatment as a Yank would be guilty of yet, I can say nothing as he
   took me in when I was suffering.Parson Bates I think is a clever christian gentleman. He has a nice family. I leave & travel on by Haysville,
   Carters Station & Zollicoffer to the widow Jacob Thomases & stayed all night taking dinner & getting
   horse fed at one Mr. Smiths, free of charge.I travelled $18 18 Miles. It rained very hard during the day. I put up about 3 O,clock P.M.Sunday Decr. 4th 1864.Spent quite a pleasant night. A very well to do family. Have quite a supply of corn & pork. Four young
   ladies, two of them visitors, enlivened the evening by an abundance of chat about their beaux.The old lady kind & christian as she is could not be induced to take pay for my staying all night so I
   moved on to Bristol 8 miles & halted. & Mr. J. Wheeler Thomas' where I have often stopped before.Monday Decr. 5th 1864.Road to town. The Dr. examined my wound & said I must be quiet, not move on it & that I would not be
   ableto join my command in some time. I am disheartened to some extent about it.Mr. Thomas leave for Kingsport & requests that I remain until he returns.Tuesday Decr. 6th 1864.Spend the entire day in the house. My horse & wound I think, are doing pretty well. I could rest contented
   were it not for the enormous bills I have to pay. Though I must be contented as I can not get away. Rainy to day.Wednesday Decr. 7th 1864.A bright clear morning. I forgot to say I wrote to Capt Bennett & othersat Mc Neaslawds on Monday asking them to address me at this place
   immediatelyRecd. an answer from the Capt to day. He, Ellis & others are exchangingThursday Decr. 8th 1864.Very cold morning. My leg looks better this morning. Have the Dr. to examine it.Friday Decr. 9th 1864Truly cold. Stay in doors all day. Leg worse  Mr Thomases.Saturday Decr. 10th 1864.A heavy sleet & very cold.Sunday Decr. 11th 1864.Capt Bennett & Dr. Haynie arives at Bristol yesterday.Monday Decr. 12th 1864Went to town & Saw Johney Malone. He is mending finelyTuesday Decr. 13th 1864Cold morning. Lts Berry  Tharp, Capt Wolff & Sgt. Walter Forbs come out yesterday. Having a good time.
   Gen. Duke arives at about 12 O,clock, M. Maj. Llewellyn & Jos. Love arives much excited and report our
   command routed at Rogersville & Kingsport & the enemy pursuing.I mounted my horse & with Dr. Haynie, Capt. Bennett Dr. Gelaspie & Billie Wash road out the Abingdon
   road being perfectly satisfied that the enemy would be in Bristol before day. No one seemed to think that
   he would occupy the placeThe consequence was that many were capturedWe road six miles out to Mr. Preston's & staid all night. I left two fine shirts (white) and one
   dozen or more collars & a towell with Mrs. Thomas.Wednesday Decr. 14th 1864.We moved on to Abingdon this morning having learned that the enemy were certainly in Bristol. We met the
   command two miles from town where the reedy creek road intersects thisI call at Mr. Thos. Findleys & see the kind ladies, then move on with Ellis  Bennett & Haynie to
   Mrs. Hayters Six miles from Abingdon towards the Salt works.Thursday Decr. 15th 1864.A soldier arouses us about 4 A.M. with the report of the approach of the enemy. We leaveCatch up with the wagons & wait for the command. Move into Saltville. Gen went on a scout with all of
   his availabe command. I remained & assisted col Napier to put the few men left in position on the hills.Friday Decr. 16th 1864Gen. Duke returns in the evening & we move all the command up to the meadow mejan Ponmers
   & camp.To night all the cavalry leave the enemy having passed the seven mile foard towards Marion. Gen Breckenridge
   leaves. Col Preston is in commandSaturday Decr. 17th 1864I ride up to the Pickett baseThe enemy reported (Most reliably) advancing from Abingdon. Blustering all day, putting Artillery in position
   etc etc.Sunday Decr. 18th 1864.Enemy reported advancing down Rich Valley, by broad ford etc. Had to change pickett stand & position of
   Artillery  Rained very hard all day. I remained on my horse all the day, suffering from my woundFals alarm.Monday Decr. 19th 1864Quiet to day until about night when it is reported that a force of five hundred of the passed Glade Springs
   towards Abingdon. Upon furtherinvestigation we find that a large force of the enemy encamped & Mr. Sander's four miles from
   7 mile foard to night. He moved at day light towards Glade Springs.No one but Gen. Jackson thought he would attack the Salt works. The Gen. thought he would come through
   McCalls Gap & make his attack. Gen. J. is quite a sensible man in Military movements.Tuesday Decr. 20th 1864News of the approach of the enemy through McCalls gap soon reached us. Preperations were made to meet him.
   Three pieces of Artillery& about three hundred reserves were all the force to defend the place. I assisted Col. Preston all I
   could, Suffering all the time with my wound. So soon as the enemy appeared I was satisfied he would take
   the place & ordered Capt Bennett to take the Taswell road with the wagons.The assault was made about one hour by sun. Ft. Brickenridge was taken just after dark. The troops were
   there upon withdrawn under cover of darkness.Lts Didlake & Golbert with some twenty ran men were
   captured I think. I moved out with Col P.It rained andsleeted all night nearly. And the mud & high waters were much in our way.Wednesday Decr. 21st 1864About day ligh I left the Command & went down Beaver Creek in search of Capt. Bennett and the wagons.
   I run a narrow risk of being captured but could not rest contented to leave Bennett, Ellis & others
   surrounded by Mountains & high water to be captured trying to save a few wagons & old horses.Very much to my satisfaction I found on ariving at the river that the wagons had crossed last night. I
   cross at broad foard, Very deep Cross Laurel fork.Find several wagon & teams left here. Could not cross. One of our teams (the little forge) was drowned
   here. I pay a man five dollars to show me the foard.Come to Mr. Thompson Daughterys. The creek all around on three sides, the Mountain on the other, Can not,
   possibly get out, Stay all night. Poor, rough food but kind people.Thursday Decr. 22n 1864Crossed early. Very deep. Cross Flat top & Clinch Mountains. Very cold.Stop at two O Clock near Liberty hill at Mrs. Higenbothems. I most comfortable place with plenty of every
   thing.Stay all nigh. Catch up in my lost Sleep & eating.Friday Decr. 23d 1864.Moderated a little. Pass Liberty Hill on to Taswell C.H. or Jeffersonville.Overtake the train & Capts B & E.  Stay all night with Capt Hanman of the 10th Ky. Recd. & order
   to move the wagons to Wythville.Saturday Decr. 24th 1864Rec information that the enemy had Left Saltville. Move the wagons to Mrs. Whiltons  camp there to feed.Put up at Mrs Georges' quite a nice place. Capt B & E, Jos Love & LtHolt are with me.Sunday Decr. 25th 1864Christmas day. Warmer than yesterday, though Cold yet.I will mention right here that Mr. Stuart of Saltville is a noble fellow a man of fine judgement
   on all subjects with Princly liverality. He has quite a nice family. I can not say so much for Mr.
   Palmer as I know not so much about him.Munday Decr. 26th 1864I remained in doors pretty much all day. The wagons have a fine camping ground plenty of wood, rations
   & forage.Capt Bennett go to town. We hear a rumer of Hoods disaster. Don ' t fully credit itTuesday Decr. 27th 1864.Remain quiet near all day. Our boarding house, Mrs. George ' s, is a first rate one.Hear that the Yanks are returning on this road. I do not believe it.Wednesday Decr. 28th ,64Dr. Kay arives, Bring us more news than we have had. Mr. Ogg of Tuckers Battn. arives Saying that Col.
   Tucker says the wagons must come to seven miles foard  Does not think Tucker will remain there long.Evening very bad, Snowing. Order to march at Sun up in the morning. I let Ogg the courier have $20.00Thursday Decr. 29th 1864.Morning very cold. Snow on the ground. In view of the bad weather, the uncertainty of finding Tucker at
   7 miles foard, the probability of Gen. Duke sending an order for us to move to some other point we defer
   standing til morning.Road to town; found it very cold. Confirmation of Hoods disaster.Friday Decr. 30th 1864:Morning cold. Loaned Penson of Callaways Company $20 to buy brandy. He has measals. Disagreeable day.Saturday Decr. 31st 1864.Morning very cold anddeep snow on the ground. Still Snowing. Wagons move out. Roads desperate.Hard pulling for the mules & bad moving for horses under horse back. Moved to Liberty Hill & past.
   Camped 2 miles from the place at Mr. Youngs. I staid at Mrs. Moses M. Higginbothems. Clever lady. Desperate
   day.Sunday Jany. 1st 1865:Morning desperately cold. Conclude not to move to day but to send to Gen Duke for directions. Sent C.A.
   McIntire with dispatch.Spent the day in the houseMonday Jany 2n 1864.Remained in doors all day. Ellis & Bennett were getting up rations & forage. Snow six or
   eight inches deep.Tuesday Jany 3d 1864.Remained in doors. See that Mr. Higginbotham is getting tired of us. Resolve to leave in the morning.
   McIntire arives about dark with dispatch from Gen. Duke ordering us to move to Lutherin Church some
   ten miles from seven miles foard.Settle with Mrs. Higginbotham. Pay her for fifteen dozen oats and Ellis takes eighty eight pounds
   salted pork deducting our boardShe is very industrious and saving as a farmers wife ought to be.Wednesday Jany 4th 1865Morning very cold but presents some prospects of clearing off.Moved from Mrs. Higinbothems & had rather a cold though moderately pleasant ride all day & stayed
   all night at George Scotts 3 miles from Saltville.Drove 18 miles this day crossing Clinch and Flat Top Mountains Laurel Fort twice and North fork of Holston
   three times. one of the times at broad foard by Mrs Pearsans.Thursday Jany 5th 1865.Moved from Mr. Scotts early & passed over Chesnut Ridge & Walkers Mountain to the Abingdon & Marion
   road on to camps in Sinklers bottom to Lutherin Church. Bad country. No forage.Friday Jany 6th 1865Stayed all day at Mr. Edmonsons near Gen D ' s Hd. qrs.Drew up Bennett & Ellis ' application for appointment to the office of A.Q.M. & A.C.S.  Approved them
   and went to bed - with the hope of going to Richmond tomorrow.Saturday Jany 7th 1865.Snowing this morning, Cold. A fellow named Sanders saysthe Richmond house is the best one in the City on the corner of Ross & Govenor Sts.Left Mr. Edmonsons about 11 O clock A.M. having written & approved and had Gen Duke to approve Capts.
   Bennetts & Ellis ' Applications for appointment to A.Q.M. and A.C.S.. Had a cold disagreeable ride to Mr. Acres  Six miles from Marion on The Wythville road.I this morning became vexed at a man in Company " A " 1st Battn. for Straggling by the house where
   I was and for not giving me satisfaction as to what he wanted and I used language pretty rough towards him &
   drove him off without letting him in the houseI afterwords, learned he wanted to see Mr Edmonson to get him to keep his broken down horse. I deeply regreted
   my course towards the fellow though he had no business away from the Column without an explanation of his absence.With Capt. Wolff & Lt. Conn at Mr. Acres, Gen Duke gave me an order to go to Richmond, Subject to Gen Breckenridges
   approval.Sunday Jany 8th 1865.Morning cold Very disagreeable riding. Ice coated the road.Acres did not charge me he said I gave him ten ($10) dollars which he freely took.Reached Wythville twenty one (21) miles by three O clock. My horse road better to day than I ever had him beforeCalled at Gen. B. Hd. Qrs. Maj. J. Sloddadd Johnston A.A.G. was glad to see me. Approved my order to go to Richmond
   for fifteen (15) day very willingly & invited me to dine with him tomorrow  Capt. Sanford was also glad to See me
   & Said Col Preston acknowledged valuable assistance recieved from me & Complimented me for acts done at Saltville.
   Road out to Simmermans to stay all night.Munday Jany 9th 1865Morning much more moderateRoad in to town to day. Got Capt. Bennetts papers fixed up to my liking. Wish I had Ellis ' as far on the way. Capt. ShelbyA.C.S. is in Richmond & will not be back for several days. Ellis ' application can not go on til he comes & acts
   on it.I take dinner with Maj Johnston & Capt. Sanford to day. Maj Johnston gave me quite a complimentary letter of introduction to
   Col. Preston  Johnston A.D.C. to the President  Commenced to rain about the time I returned to Simmermans.Simmermans Tuesd. Jany 10th 1865Raining & continues til 12 m. I give Negro five (5) dollars to attend to my horse til I returnRoad down to Mr Randel McGavocks. staid all nightMaj Clois & brother Mr. McNut & family were there. The train failed to come up, there having been so much rain.Wednesday Jany 11th 1865Walked back to Simmermans. Spent the day.Thursday Jany 12thRoad in to town. Saw Lt. Piper, Jos. Stott, et als. Very cold. Also saw Lt. Gathnight who gave me a power of Atton. &
forty (40) dollars to get him a pair of spurs  Went to Mr Racfhol McGavocks.
   Staid all nightFriday Jany 13th 1865Run slowly to LynchburgStoped at the Piedmont house. Won ' t do so any more.Saturday Jany. 14th 1865Moved at 7 A.M. for Richmond on the South Side road. Two coaches (near) run off the track in nine miles of Farmville
   Delaid but little while as we left the coaches. Waited at Burksville for Danville train. Arived at Richmond at 9 P.M.
   Stopped at the Spotswood.Sunday Jany. 15th 1865Visited Fry, Sanderson and McCorcal. Spent the day with them. Also met Dr. Meneice.
   Gen Breckenridge arives.Monday Jany 16th 1865Spent the day in tryingto have my business aranged in the I.M. C.S. department. Make slow progress  Officers are so careless & indifferent.
   If our cause does fail, which It looks now like it will the Government has itself to blame for it.Went to the Ordinance office & purchased several articles   4 pr. Spur & Straps $8 each. one brush $2.50  Curry
   comb $4.00, one Bumnah $25Tuesday Jany 17th 1865Fort fisher fell last Sunday 15th  Moved down to Capt. Fry ' s. Furnished $20 for rations. Got Ellis application
   up as far as the Sectyof War. Can see it no further. For I will never see or hear of it again. Capt. Bennetts is lost. Make out another one by
   directions of the I.M. Gen.Wednesday Jany 18th 1865.Handed in Capt Bennetts application. I.M.G. said he would at but did not.  Saw Maj. Henry who promises to attend to the
   confirmation of the appointments when they reach the Senate.Gave Priderson $20 for Marketing & $10 for himself. Had headache.Thursday Jany 19th 1865.Attended to Capt. Bennetts application. Was successful. Left a note for the Military Committee with Maj Henry.Bought sword belt $20 for Allis Hunt. Curry comb & brush $6.50 for myself & bridle & bit $50. and one Shirt
   Collar $10 for myself. Gave Anderson 20$ Mess fund. Called on Miss Fannie Claiborn  Bransford niece.Made Col Munfords acquaintance. Got Passport & transportation and went on with Fry homeFriday Jany 20th 1865Went to the Depot early  very cold. Crowded into a train with many Soldiers. No fire. Stood up to Burksvillefifty four (54) miles. Changed cars. Got in the ladies coach. Very comfortable. Arived at Lynchburg at 7 P.M. Stop at
   the Norval house  Better than the Piedmont.Buy $3 dollars worth Smoking & $5 worth Chewing tobacco. One pipe for Jim Stott, $12.Saturday Jany 21st 1865.Up early. Went to the Depot. Train so crowded I could not get on. Return to the Hrovel House.Rains & hales & sleets, an awful day.Write to Josie & Bob Bransford. Also to Gen Hood for Capt Kirk. Purchase $3 worth Envelopes &
   $2     Stamps.Sunday Jany 22nd 1865.Failed to get off on the cars again. Spend the day in doors.Monday Jany 23d 1865.Get off this morning by a press. Take Mrs W.J. Kayton a poor soldiers wife on with me. She is boarding at
   Mr. Daniel C. Yate ' s near Salem. A very intelligent nice lady native of New York.Arive at Simmerman ' s at dark. Find Ellisthere. My bill at Lynchburg is one hundred and thirty five (135) dollars.Tuesday Jany 24th 1865.Go to town. Get my time extended to the 29th Jany, 65. Ride out to McGavocks.Wednesday Jany 25th 1865.Spend the day (very cold one) in doors. Find Mrs Alston a very nice lady, He Children Bobbie W & his
   sister very spritely children.Thursday Jany 26th 1865.Remain in doors all day very cold.Friday Jany 27th 1865Still miserably cold. Ride over to Simmermans in the evening. Suffer muchLeave Simmermans. Go into town  Move on towards Marion. Stay at Dr. Straws, all night,Sunday Jany 29th 1865Morning very cold. Bill $25. Travel on facing the wind to Mr Acres. Aim to cross the river on the ice.
   Break through & get wet. Stay at Acres, five (5) miles from Marion all night.Very comfortably. Moderates some this evening.Monday Jany 30th 1865.Bill $20. Morning very cold but clear.Travel on & stop for the night at Capt. Batey ' s eleven (11) miles from Abingdon. Bill nothing.Meet Capt, Bob Logan and Campbell there.Tuesday Jany 31st 1865.Travel on to Abingdon. Find that my friends had to destroy my cloths left at that place to keep them from
   falling into the hands of the enemy, on the raid. Ride out to Camp two (2) miles. Find the men pretty Comfortable.Wednesday Feby 1st 1865.Commence preparations for building me a house.Thursday Feby 2nd 1865Continue our works with some success.Friday Feby 3d 1865Prosper finely with our houseSaturday Feby 4th 1865Get only fine with the house.Sunday Feby 5th 1865.Stay in doors all day as we got in our house last evening. Well pleased with our house. The roof is not completed yet.Monday Feby 6th 1865.Finish our house and are quite comfortably situated. In speaking of our house. It is fourteen (14) feet long. Twelve (12)
   feet wide and Eight (8) feet high on one end & 5 1/2 and a half on the other side  Covered the long way way with long
   plank.Tuesday Feby. 7th 1865.Get wood, Cook etc  Dr. Haynie being sick.Wednesday Feby 8th 1865.Heavy snow fell last night & yesterday. Quite a snow on the ground. Wrote to my wife on yesterday &
   to my father & mother to day to be sent by flag of truce to Ky.Thursday     Febry    9th, 65Friday       "  10th, "Saturday     "  11th  "Sunday       "  12th  "Monday       "  13th  "Tuesday      "  14th  "All spent in camp with but little to do and doing little. On this evening however Capts. Bennett, Cantrell,
   Davis & Myself, Walt Glover & Mr Cantrell (Capt ' s father) all road out five or six miles to
   Jack Porters Wedding.He marries a Miss Warren at on Mr. Griggs house. There was quite a crowd there, The men mostly soldiers; The
   ladies all fine large bucksome Country lassies who either Kissed or would be Kissed with equal willing ness.I fact I never saw women so wholly engroced in the old fashioned play s as they were; the leading feature in
   which is Kissing  Road back at ten (10) O clock P.M.Wednesday   Feby 15th   1865.Thursday    Feby 16     1865.Friday      Feby 17     1865.Saturday    Feby 18     1865.All spent in camp. On Last night about 10 O clockwe recd. orders to be ready to march at an hours notice; to have two days rations cooked etc etc. I have not been
   able to learn the cause of the order.  No order to move.March 10th 1865From this date up to April 2nd 1865. Nothing of interest occurs  We receive orders to move. Before this time Gen.
   Early comes up to Abingdon. Has a review of our Command, Gen. Duke was not out for reasons satisfactory to him perhaps,
   but not to me.I took command & My evil nature predominating I permitted it to prompt me to make a poor display. We, all in all,
   had a pleasant two & a half (2 1/2) Months in Camp Near Abingdon Va.April 3d 1865We move out of camp about eleven O clock P.M. Take the train much crowded about 1 A.M. on theApril 4 1865Arive at Marion Va  about 7 A.M.  Walk from there to near old Mt. Airy. Camp, cook & rest til one hour by sun.I have very very sick to day all day, the effects of too much Morpia taken last night for Cholick. Ride private Mc Carters
   horse. Stop at Jake Castles. Sleep & rest, get a glass of wine & feel much better.Move on from Mt. Airy to Reedy creek bridge. It being destroyed by the enemywe march six (6) miles around by the turnpike bridge & reach Camp close to Wythville just before day. Rest & sleep
   until sunrise onApril 5th 1865Move through town & camp one mile off. Hear various rumers, one of which is Richmond & Petersburg are in the hands
   of the enemy. Stall all day & rest & sleep untilApril 6th 1865.Spend the morning very idly.[Evidence indicates this is William W. Ward ' s diary]see: Official Records of the War of the Rebellion.                                JD   2/7/83Expenses to Richmond and back on business for Capts. Bennett & Ellis   386.00This is exclusive of my Tavern bill at SimmermansExpenses to Richmond Va.Bill paid 1st Night Mr. Acres              $ 10.00Paid to Negro at Simmermans                   5.00Blacking boots                                2.00Mending boot                                  1.00T.B. Lynchburg                               25.00Tobacco                                       3.00Papers                                        2.00Cutting hair etc                              8.00Brandy                                        5.00To an afflicted woman                        10.00Tavern bill Spts. W.                        100.00Holsters etc                                 15.00Paid for Marketing                           50.00Slim Collar                                  10.00Stamps & Envelopes                        5.00Tavern Bill                                 135.00Bill with Simmermans                        386.00[Back Cover]