Page 1

Knoxville Tennessee Jan 12th/864 Friend John As I have time, I think I will take the present opportunity of answering your letter of the 27th of last month, which I received yesterday. and I tell you I was glad to get it: for the last letter I got from home was mailed on the 7th of last month. and I had almost began to think that folks at home had, as the soldiers have it, gone back on will but it seems to be different for I received one from George with yours. I answered his yesterday and now I will try and answer yours to day. I have jest heard that the mail leaves this place to go north 3 times a week and is received the other alternate days, so I think I can get this off tomorrow. for my part I dont see what in the world has kept my letters from going through. I have written plenty of them since the siege has been raised to most all the folks and have sent with Jim and Reid to Steve Carter for you $55 which I am in hopes you will get in season and all right. I saw George Clarck when the regiment

Page 2

was here. they have gone home since I believe. he told me about the boys getting killed. that is pretty tough for the first time. but that may not be a beginning yet. but I am in hopes that this rebellion is short lived now, and I really think it is. if the authorities could find out who it was that helped Treasgan off (and it seems to me they can) it would serve them right to dispose of them as the English did the Sepoys. I tell you I am of the opinion that death in any shape is there just due. and I believe in giving everybody that, even to old Nick himself. there is lots of the streaking spying villains all around us here and all around the north giving all the intelligence in there power to the enemy. and at the same time getting there livelihood out of the government. I say give them all the hemp neccessary for them to streach and without a foothold at that. and for the ill treatment that our soldiers receive at there hands in Richmond just because they wont exchange them, retaliate on our prisoners. there is no other way to bring them to terms. I think it ought to be done and the quicker the better. it seems to me that at the present prices you can afford to smell sheep and talk sheep most of the time. 35 cts a pound

Page 3

is pretty good for wool. it seems that Dave's woman couldn't stand the pressure so far away from home. I was surprised when I heard that Dave had gone back to Russia. we are having a pretty good time now. we have moved out of the fort into a large room in the East Tennessee Institute. there is two of the sections here. the other one is on the other side of the town from here. our Capt has turned over our horses and two of our guns and got two 3 inch rifle pieces in there stead. and he has the promise of the Gen'l for a full rifled Battery in the spring. if we get we will be on the go more than we have been for the last year. I tell you what John you have reason to be thankful that the desolating influencies of war have never been any nearer home than they have been. not you alone but everybody in Ohio. if you could see what I have seen in marching through the country you could not help but say so to. everything most is swept off in the track of an army wheather hostile or not. all kinds of fodder and when they stop down comes the fences and perhaps there stock if it is in sight. and in this country it dont take long to use up what little there is. I am glad you have a comfortable home. I think

Page 4

it is the single mans business to go to war first and, then if it is neccessary let the married come next. the single can get along and will enjoy themselves better than a man that leaves a family at home to the mercies of the people. if I ever felt sorry for a man in my life, it was while we were besieged he was Lieut Colonel of the 17th Michigan. a young man cut off in the prime of life by a rebel sharpshooter. the ball struck him on the left side jest below the heart. I saw him when he was taken to the field hospital and stayed till the wound was examined and partly dressed. his only thoughts were of home, judging by what he said and all he said. for the first words he spoke were oh my dear wife and child. and I cant stand this much longer. the ball had not gone through him but it was a mortal wound. he died the same night. what news that was to send to his wife. and oh what lots of widows this war's making every day. and orphans without number. but I must stop. I am well and have been so far this winter. Jim & Reid are also well. I dont know as there is anything you can do for me at present. my best respects to Eliza and the same for yourself write soon and direct as usual - John

