Page 1

Mrs E.A.R. Breck Knoxville Tenn.

Page 2

Huntersville N.C. Aug. 1890 My dear Aunt, I have been intending to write to you for some time but concluded to wait until I got home. I am keeping house now, as Ma has gone to Grandma's on some business and Andie is visiting. I had company to day for dinner and I was a little worried when I got it all through but have written three letters since and have two postals and one more letter to write. Ma wants to hear this eve and I am writing for Andie to come home I have been working hard this summer for I find teaching any thing else essays. besides I have been sick a good

Page 3

deal, not down in bed but feeling bad all the time. You have been very very kind to us. I never will forget it and will try in a measure to repay you by living such a life that even my father's people will not blush to own me. Ma says you want Bart to go stay with you. You know how hard it will be for us to give her up but I would never say a word against it for I know it will be for her benefit. I will go with her, if you care to have me, to visit you. I will be glad to see you again. I have been away from home ever since the day Pa was buried, perhaps it was selfish in me to leave, but I could not stay. I had nursed him so long, and was so used to his being there in bed that

Page 4

I could not stay when he did not need me any longer. I know you have had more trouble than I but I do not think it could have been the same to you that it was to me. It changed me from one of the liveliest most contented person around to one of the saddest and most discontented. I do not want to stay one place two days without wishing I was in another. Please skip over the sad part of this letter and remember only the pleasant things I have to say. We are doing fine now I can cook very well all but bread, and have plenty of time to read as I do not visit any at all. I have not seen any of Uncle Dave, but I have only been home one day.

Page 5

Bart says it is near train time so I must close. Bart says she want to to go stay with you, she thinks she will like it. Give my love to Uncle Mack, and Aunt Mag and all. In haste, your loving niece Annette Ramsey

