Page 1

Dr. J.G.M. Ramsey, Knoxville -- Tennessee.

Page 2

Madison, July 26th. 1880. My Dear Dr. Ramsey -- Thanks for your recent favor. I am making some progress in my work -- not so much the past week as formerly, as I have been somewhat under the weather. On page 230 of yr. work, you mention Matthew Fallot's as the first night's camping place. As it was a mill, it was of course on a stream -- was it the head, or towards the head of Gap Creek* --& before they reached Yellow Mountain? This would seem to be inferential. Crab Orchard is another point on the route I wish specifically to locate -- which I suppose was reached just after passing Yellow Mountain. *Is Gap Creek a tributary of Big Doe -- or of the Watauga? I see on one map a stream heading on the mountain & leaving to the upper Watauga. Crab Orchard is 72 miles form Elizabethton, up Doe River

Page 3

Mr. Thompson wrote me, that Mr. Paulette at length declined taking a General agency of the King's Mountain work -- not that Mr. Thompson's offer was not satisfactory; but that he thought the work too local in nature, & too evanescent, as a sort of out growth of the Centennial, to render it profitable to circulate. I rather judge that he forms his opinion on the general character of trumped-up subscription books -- & poorly gotten up. I know I am doing my part faithfully & honestly, & I know the paper, binding & illustrations on Thompson's end will be well done -- the four likenesses of Shelby, Sevier, McDowell, & Hammond, will be on steel. I shall be sadly disappointed if the work proves evanescent in its popularity. I cannot help thinking that a good business man -- such as I suppose Mr. Paulette to be -- would find it both pleasant & profitable -- pleasant to work with a book that would be no catch-penny affair. My forty years gatherings are even richer than I had supposed. Where does Dr. G.W. Sevier live -- at Jonesboro?G.W.S. son of Gov. Sevier died in Nashville Ever Truly Yours, Lyman C. Draper Dr. G.W. Sevier, a grandson of Gov. Sevier, lives near Tuscumbia, Ala. Who is the representative of the old Carter family in Carter Co -- Elizabethtown, since Wm. B. Carter passed away W.B Carter, now of Alfred M. Carter, who was a son of Landon Carter was the uncle of the present M.B.C. Landon Carter was son of John Carter, who came from Va.

