Page 1

Address -- Dr John Shrady Asylum U.S.A. General Hospital Knoxville, Tenn Knoxville, Tenn, July 11th 1864. My Own Darling, Much to my gratification I have found those photographs. I unconsciously must have put them in my valise for there I discovered them all safe & sound. I was very much annoyed by their supposed loss and when my eyes lit upon them, it seemed as though it was a species of family re-union. I would that they were flesh & blood instead of "counterfeit presentments." But, dearest Jeannie, the time for our meeting once more is drawing rapidly near. It will soon be here. The regiment is to be mustered out Sept 28th. My uniform is beginning to look somewhat shabby, but a new coat alone will cost $45.00 and as I am to become a citizen once more, it will look very much like

Page 2

throwing money away. That much put upon the wardrobe of our little family might contribute somewhat to the making of a respectable show. So, Darling, dont you think that I can afford sacrificing a little brilliancy of appearance upon my arrival home for the sake of more lasting advantages? I really think that after awhile I shall become economical -- but you smile and think that it will be something like the judgments of the ancient gods. Something that I cannot help. I understand that a few Paymasters have arrived -- if so, nothing would please me more. I feel that you have been neglected in that particular, but, Darling, it has been both unfortunate & unavoidable. I have been promised the

Page 3

charge of the Officers' Hospital here -- I don't care about having it -- there will be a deal of trouble and probably delay when the settlement comes. I might have to stay some weeks after the Muster-Out. Then again, my egotism sets down all these favors to the credit of tardy justice. I wrote you about my having been to Cumberland Gap, where I was first initiated into the mysteries of Camp-life. It is a two-days' ride by one road and 2-1/2 by another from Knoxville. I was by no means sorry when the duty was done -- a broiling sun & hard-riding horse are not to be set down among the comforts of life. I became as sun-browned as a dragoon -- perhaps when I present myself at the Polls to vote for Lincoln & Johnson some old Copperhead may challenge my

Page 4

vote on the score of not having sufficient property to allow a "Nigger's" voting. I presume that this will find you at Reeder's -- if so give them all my respects. Rest and change of scene will do you good, so Darling don't be in a hurry about returning. Kiss our little Pink for her Pa. May a Kind Heaven keep you & yours in health is my sincere prayer. Kind rememberances to Mother, Fran, Albert & family. Tell Anna that her letter has come to hand and will be answered soon. The same to Ma. I have written you in haste & somewhat disjointedly. If anything remains unsaid that should have been written, you good nature will supply, for one assurance may always comfort you & that is you have my undivided heart. Yours Devotedly John.

