Page 1

Knoxville, Tenn. October 8th 1864 My Own Darling, Hurrah, I am now a free man. I have just received my discharge in writing and in proper form. I ignorantly omitted writing you by one mail. I did not know that our communications by rail were established. When I learned of my lost opportunity, Forrest again interfered and I was of course obliged to forego my intention -- or let the letter lay in the Post Office until the matters on the road were again in "apple-pie order." I hardly think that I shall be able to start for home before next week as there is a certain receipt about which the Med: Purveyor is quibbling, and I think that the matter had better be closed up on the spot -- especially when you have the facilities at hand. The Government won't pay up to date of muster-out until

Page 2

a clear receipt from all indebtedness can be obtained from the proper departments. This is all right, because a great many might take advantage and the government be a loser -- besides too the annoyance of "after claps" may be avoided. Lt Col: Melton intends coming on to spend a few weeks in New York -- I don't know whether he purposes putting up at some Hotel or not, but I rather think he intends being my guest. Can mother & yourself so arrange it, that he can without inconvenience be accommodated during his stay? Now, Darling, the time of our reunion is drawing near, very near, may a merciful Heaven grant to shield from all harm, as the cup of bliss is so near our lips. He has spared us both so far, may we not hope for a continuance of His kind favor. Tell little Sis, her Papa will be

Page 3

soon to see her Mamma & her little toadship. I suppose that the latter has grown somewhat past my recognition -- I might even pass her by upon the street, without knowing it. Yet there is a certain something that will identify in spite of advancing months. Commend me to Mother and Fan -- To Pa, Ma & the rest. Your faithful heart, my darling, is about meeting with a realization of its longings -- may I never cause it one unnecessary throb of pain. I have missed you in many a gloomy hour during my absence -- I have dreamed of you upon the field, & in prison, and you always appeared as a guardian spirit. Heaven, I know, will reward you, and I hope to be its chosen instrument. I will write you again, giving you the time when I start and the probable time of my final arrival home.

Page 4

I miss your letters very much -- if I had have known of the length of time required in making our regimental matters all right, I would have greedily demanded one more epistle at least. Now, My Precious, Adieu, Yours devotedly John.

