CoverPERPETUALDIARY.Ed. H. RennoldsCo. D.5th Tenn.Presented byPhillip KennerlyA. LIEBENROTH & VON AUW,25 BEEKMAN STREET,NEW YORK.Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1862, by A. LIEBENROTH & VON
               AUW, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the
               Southern District of New York.CALENDAR FOR 1863.1864JANUARY.1. 1864Turned cold last night and today is the hardest of the season. The wind is like ice.
               Could hardly keep from freezing. Were mustered by the Brigade A.I. Genl. In Congress
               the House has repealed the Substitute Law.2.The Regt. Ordered to Dalton to Police for a week. A cold walk ended with putting us
               in a cold open filthy house, amid the curses of the men. The 58th & 60th N.C.
               Reg. is put on with us. No cooking utensils brought. Wood is scarce. The whole Co.
               has to stay around one small fireplace.3.SundayOn duty. I Had charge of the picket around town. Relieved before night. Have been
               sick several days with cold. Got worse today and got Lt. Linderman put in my place.
               The weather is moderating somewhat.JANUARY.4.Am no better this morning. Rained all day making the streets very muddy. Both Houses
               of Congress have passed the Bill repealing the Substitute Law. Forrest has had to
               leave West Tennessee fifteen thousand men being in pursuit of him.5.A warm thawing day. Streets very muddy. Am getting no better with my cold. Gen.
               Forrest says he was not whipped out of West Tenn. Guards are regularly mounted every
               morning.6.Turned cold again last night and it is very raw today. The guards confiscate much
               whiskey etc. and want to stay here, but I hope we will leave soon. Have obtained
               board in town.JANUARY.7.Another cold day succeeds a cold night. It rains, sleets & snows by turns.
               Citizens say it has never been colder here. Gen. Parker who was cut off at Charleston
               and came around through Va. has arrived.8.Icy streets make policing at night rather dangerous. Most of the boys are getting
               willing to go back to camp. They are having high times at Balls and parties.9.Though this space was left blank we must have been relieved of Police duty and
               returned to camp. Only one officer in each Co. could get a furlough at a time. See
               next days record.UARY.10.SundaySpent the day getting boards to supply the place of a fly. All tents & flies
               being turned over for summer use. Lt. Lemonds returned and I started a furlough to go
               to Virginia, to see Uncle William. Hope I will be successful.11.The weather has moderated and is thawing. Pinson having returned another furlough was
               drawn. Bob. Bell being the successful one. Coffman gave him a hundred dollars for it.
               (See record of Dec. 25 & 26 1863)12.My Furlough returned approved this evening for 20 days. Cal Howard has one also and
               will accompany me. Spent the day mostly making preparations to start.JANUARY.13.(Another blank space - I could not go to West Tenn. as it was in enemy's lines
               and so took next best thing to go to Va. & visit my birthplace. A month later I
               could have gone to West Tenn. but I had exhausted my priveleges.)14.Went down to Dalton to start. Took dinner at Capt. Ray's and then waded the mud
               into town and got our Passports to Richmond. Took the cars at 8 P.M. and moved off
               slowly. No light in the cars and but little fire.15.Cars ran off at Big Shanty and remained there till about 2 P.M. And after many stops
               reached Atlanta at 4 P.M. just in time to take the cars for Augusta. Could hardly
               secure a seat.JANUARY.16.Much drinking and some stealing on the train last night. Reached Augusta at 4 A.M.
               and after waiting in the cold till daylight started to Kingsville. Home Guards of A.
               ordered to Pocotaligo. Reached K. before night and took another crowded car to
               Wilmington.17.SundayCould get no seat last night but a stick of wood. Longstreet's Hospital rats
               fill every thing. Reached W. after daylight, and concluded to lay over a day. Took
               the train again at 7 P.M. and had a whole seat most of the time and slept well.18.Arrived at Weldon at daylight and started again in two hours. Had another good seat
               and reached Petersburg before night, and soon started again after eating a
               dinner.JANUARY.19.Reached Richmond last night at 7. Had to remain in the city all night. Bad quarters.
               Started again at 6 A.M. in a crowded train reached Frederick Hall at 11 A.M. Went
               over to Uncle William's, and was warmly recieved.20.4 Battalions of Artillery are stationed here. Guards at the house. Turned cold
               yesterday. Moderated to day. Spent the day sitting by the fire and resting. Cousin
               Thornton is here with a mashed foot. The Yankees have ruined him.21.Spent the day looking over the farm, the Old Mill and other places and talking with
               Uncle William of old times and of Pa's youth.JANUARY.22.Took the cars at 9 A.M. for Staunton to see Uncle Taliaferro. Had to stand up to
               Gordonsville, but then got a seat. Reached S. at 5 P.M. Found Uncle T. very sick. Dr.
               Fuqua thinks dangerous. I put up at the Virginia Hotel.23.Telegraphed to Uncle William but could get no answer. Uncle T. no better. Spent the
               day mostly with him. Staunton is a nice place. Do not like the Virginia Hotel. Moved
               to the American.24.SundayUncle T. is better. Intended to return to F. Hall today but will remain till
               tomorrow. Uncle W. arrived at night. Did not get my dispatch till last night.JANUARY.25.Started on the cars at 6 3/4 A.M. Crowded cars. Inside and platforms. Many are being
               furloughed by Gen. Lee. Train ran off at Gordonsville. No one hurt. Did not arrive at
               F.H. until night. Aunt Barbara is better.26.Uncle W. telegraphs that Uncle T. is very ill and he will remain another day. I
               answered it in the evening. Another Dispatch from Uncle W. at night. Contents same as
               the other. Aunt Barbara is still getting better.27.Another dispatch this morning. Uncle T. is very low. Helpless. No answer asked for.
               Aunt Barbara still improving.JANUARY.28.The Army is reenlisting for the war fast. The Tennesseans commenced it. A letter from
               Uncle W. Does not think the Dr. can live without a speedy change. Confederate
               Assessor came in to spend the night.29.Uncle W. Telegraphs that Uncle T. is dead and his remains will be at the Depot today.
               I went with the wagon when the cars came and brought the coffin down. He died
               yesterday at 4 P.M. He remained sensible to the last.30.Buried Uncle T. at 2 P.M. Only two persons, (Messrs. Tally & Bibb attended. A
               great man is dead.JANUARY.31.SundaySpent the day by the fireside. The weather is cloudy and cooler. Uncle Taliaferro is
               a great loss to the family. As a physician he was skillful & kind. As a brother
               affectionate. He had great judgement and a strict sense of justice. Always exacting
               his dues to the letter and was no less anxious to give others theirs.His advice to me was good and will be highly valued by me. I regret that I did not
               find him well and could have enjoyed his society. He is greatly beloved in the Valley
               and every attention paid to him while he was sick. They had great faith in his skill.
               He has left a considerable estate obtained by the exertions of a lifetime.FEBRUARY. 18641.Went to Mrs. Armstrong's to get my pants. The weather is damp and sprinkling
               rain, is falling. Spent the day making arrangements to start back to the Army
               tomorrow. The Senate has passed a bill making us all soldiers for the war.2.Took dinner at 12 and started to the Depot. Found Capt. Ward on the train. He is on
               furlough. He says Gen. Johnston's Genl. Order No. 5 is very strict. Lucky enough
               to get a seat. Arrived in Richmond at 8 P.M. too late for the Theater. Put up at the
               Monticello Hall.3.Spent the day in Richmond visiting the Capitol Square & Congress. Richmond is
               more pleasant than I expected from what I have heard of it. Took train for Petersburg
               at sundown.FEBRUARY.4.Changed cars at Petersburg and arrived in Weldon at 4 o'clock, after a rough
               ride, sleeping but little. Arrived at Wilmington at 5 P.M. North Carolina is a poor
               country, and Wilmington an ugly city.5.Train ran off last night. But no one injured. Two coaches being injured, their
               occupants were crowded in the other cars. Arrived at Kingsville to Breakfast and took
               cars for Augusta. Arrived there before sundown and started for Atlanta.6.Reached Atlanta at 6 o'clock A.M. Gen. Morgan arrived at 9 and was given a
               Public Reception at the Trout House. The mayor spoke. The Genl. spoke later. Cols.
               Breckinridge & Allston spoke also.FEBRUARY.7.SundayReached Dalton at 4 A.M. and camp before sunup two days before my furlough was out.
               Spent the day resting and reporting myself for duty. Col. Lamb is commanding the
               Brigade. Col. Walker being sick.8.Haguewood of Co. A. who deserted last Sept. has returned. Reported myself for duty.
               Brigade Guard has been placed out and the camps kept nice. Rumors of going back to
               Cheatham's Division are afloat.9.Appointed to act as Judge Advocate of Court Marshall to try B.A. Haguewood. A very
               important duty. Lts. Tyler, Lemonds & Clark formed the court. He plead guilty.
               Plea sustained. Penalty too long to record here.FEBRUARY.10.Haguewood was marched up & down the line at Dress Parade with Placard "
               Absent without leave " and reprimanded severely by Col. Finley. He bore it
               without flinching and acted boldly. Went to town and drew my wages for January.
               $80.0011.Gen. Johnston orders Strahl's Maney's and Vaughan's Brigades back to
               Cheatham's Division. All Tennessean's again. Hurrah. Ordered to move
               tomorrow at daylight. All are delighted! One man could not wait for the Parade to be
               dismissed but cheered lustily and created a general laugh.12.The regiment moved at 8 o'clock. I was left in charge of a guard over the
               baggage. All was removed by 3 o'clock and I left. Moore's Brigade took our
               place. Walthall's Brigade did not leave us as good quarters as we vacated.FEBRUARY.13.Gen. Cheatham was in camp last evening and was followed by a crowd of cheering
               soldiers. He had imbibed freely of whiskey and talked very freely. The " boys
               " charged Jackson's stocks last night and destroyed them. Some were unlucky
               enough to get caught. Howard, Morris, Coffman and I formed a new mess.14.Sunday.Much excitement prevailed yesterday and last night about Jackson's stocks and
               threatened to become serious (our captured men have been returned to the Brigade
               guardhouse. They were released in the evening. Chaplain Swarar preached.15.It rained last night and today it continues, nearly all day. Rumors of order to go to
               Miss. are afloat. Inspection still continues on the stock destroying. The 38th Tenn.
               arrived last night from Morristown.FEBRUARY.16.Gen. Polk is falling back in Miss. and the enemy advancing. The weather is turning
               colder. Congress is pushing its business through. The stock-destroying excitement has
               blown over which once threatened to be serious.17.Lt. Lemond's arrived early and brought 40 pairs of socks from the ladies of Ga.
               which are very necessary. last night was extremely cold and it is but little better
               today. Polk is still retreating in Miss.18.Another cold night and day. Orders came at 4 P.M. to cook all rations on hand. and be
               ready to move at 11 P.M. Going to Miss. I suppose.FEBRUARY.19.Aroused at 1 o'clock and started to the Depot but soon returned. It was so cold
               tonight. Thought I would freeze indeed going to the Depot at 4 o'clock but still
               could not get started off and the night spent standing around the fire.20.Put in charge of the guard over a prisoner and went on a train with him in Passenger
               & reached Atlanta at 4 P.M. and went to Appeal office. The Regt. arrived after
               midnight.21.SundayWere aroused from a sound sleep when Regt. came. Relieved soon after and started with
               the Regt. at 9 A.M. Train ran off and two were hurt. Reached West Point at sundown.
               Had a lively trip.FEBRUARY.22.Slept well and again took the cars at 10 o'clock for Montgomery. Had a very
               lively trip. Boys enjoyed themselves writing and throwing notes to the girls who
               lined the way. Reached M. at 8 P.M. and after drawing rations went on the Reindeer
               (Packet) and at 10 P.M. started to Selma.23.Reached Selma at 8 A.M. after a pleasant trip. It is a beautiful place. Took the
               train at 10 A.M. and passed through a beautiful country passing a pleasant hour at
               Uniontown & reached Demopolis at 4 P.M. and bivouacked near the town. Gen. Polks
               forces are here.24.Recieved orders in the evening to cook two day's rations and prepare to return.
               Gen. Polk visited us in the evening and was cheered loudly. He said we had arrived
               too late to do him any good.FEBRUARY.25.Started back on the cars about 10 A.M. and after a fast trip reached Selma about 3
               P.M. Took a stroll in town and liked it finely. The people are very hospitable, kind
               and polite. News from Dalton report the enemy advancing or making a feint.26.Left Selma on the Southern Republic at 9 A.M. with music from the Calliope. Laid up
               most of the succeeding night but started before day and it was so foggy, we run into
               the woods every few moments and had to stop again till it cleared off.27.Reached Montgomery about 7 A.M. Stacked arms and placed out guards but started again
               on the train at 11 A.M. and reached West Point in the night. Took another train
               immediately for Atlanta.FEBRUARY.28.SundayReached A. at 6 A.M. Drew rations and continued on to Dalton, reaching there before
               midnight. Had a pleasant trip. Road thronged with ladies. I got left while talking to
               Capt. Peeples at Calhoun. Took the Freight and reached D. soon after the others.29.Slept on the ground at the Depot until morning when the other part of the Brigade
               arrived and we moved to our old camp to find it mostly destroyed. But I was so lucky
               as to find my hut still standing. The boys are indignant at Jackson's Brig. for
               burning theirs. But went to work again to rebuild. The enemy has retired beyond
               Ringgold. All are pleased finely with the trip to Alabama. A cold rain is
               falling.MARCH.1.A cold rainy day succeeded a rainy night. Letters have been recieved in the regiment
               from Henry and Mobile as to our boys in the 5th. Phillip Kennerly was killed at
               Mission Ridge. The others were sent to Rock Island. No news from home for me.2.3.MARCH.4.Laid down at 1 A.M. and slept until 8. The weather has moderated. Relieved at 2 P.M.
               Capt. Peeples is here and talks of returning to the Co. The enemy is raiding in Va.
               Rumors of being transferred to Polk are still the order of the day.5.Burnt up some of the brush in the Brigade Guard line. Recieved two letters from home
               dated 24th Dec. and 27th Jan. which are highly valued not having recieved one since
               May last. All are well and undisturbed by Yankees. A camp Inspection and by Gen.
               Johnston was ordered but did not come off.6.SundayInspection at 9 A.M. Nights are still cool but days pleasant. Chaplain Norton
               preached at the Church near by at 10 A.M. The weather has become pleasant. We have
               hired a negro to cook for us but he is of but little use to us.MARCH.7.Clouds, sunshine, hail and rain by turns during the day. Continues warm sometimes
               cool. Lt. Howard is assigned to duty in Capt. Caldwell's Co. while Lt. Crawford
               is on furlough. Several negroes have arrived in the regt. from Henry Co. sent as
               cooks. The Rev. Mr. Worrell Editor of Soldier's Friend preached at night.8.Col. Finley has returned from furlough. One officer from each West Tenn. Regt. are to
               be sent to Forrest to get our deserters back, also all officers not having authority
               to remain there. Capt. Caldwell goes from this regt.9.Gen. Cheatham is absent and Gen. Strahl is commanding the Division. He makes the
               consolidation of the 4th & 5th closer. Only one set of Surgeons suffered.
               Furloughs are still granted regularly.MARCH.10.Capt. Caldwell left this morning. Col. Lamb tried to get a furlough but they would
               not grant one. to go within the enemy's lines. Fayette Cherry has one for 18
               days. The men all decline to be paid until the new issue comes out.11.Went to town with Tandy & bought of the Q.M. some cooking utensils and intend
               hereafter to have a small mess. It now consists of Howard, Coffman, Tandy and myself.
               Spent the evening making out Muster Rolls, and writing letters. The weather is still
               fine.12.Were mustered at 10 A.M. for Jan. & Feb. by Lt. Chapman. The weather is
               spring-like. The Rev. Mr. Worrell delivered an address on the War at night-not much.
               Had a good size audience.MARCH.13.SundayInspection as usual by the Field officers. The Rev. Mr. Worrell preached at 11 A.M.
               Has a poor voice and is but a poor speaker. Orders are issued by Gen. Strahl to Drill
               twice a day. Brigade Drill Tuesdays and Thursdays. Esq. Green left for Henry xxx.14.Went on Division Drill. Gen. Strahl as Drill Master. Gen. Hardee present. A hilly and
               muddy drill ground and it was badly executed indeed. Cleburne's Division took
               the field as we left it. Money is getting extremely scarce on account of the funding
               process.15.Turned cold last night and the wind blew cold this morning, but we had to go on
               Division Drill again. Did better this time. 13 or 14 regiments were out. Two of
               Wright's are at Atlanta. Met Walker's Division going out as we
               returned.MARCH.16.Another cold day. Maj. Clair Insp. Gen. Army of Tenn. inspected the 31st, 4th, &
               5th. Cold as it was. A sham battle fought by Hood's Corps. at the Division Drill
               Field, created much alarm as we did not know what it was, but thought it a real
               attack by the enemy. Several men are said to have been wounded.17.A sunshiny day. Turns warmer. The Sham Battle yesterday is said to have been a fine
               scene. No Drill today, expecting the Inspector but he did not appear. It seems they
               do not intend to commence issuing rations to the officers though they have commenced
               in Virginia.18.Brigade Drill commenced but interrupted by the arrival of the Ins-Gen. 4th & 5th
               continued to drill in Battalion Drill, Company Drill in the evening. Lt. Lemonds
               being on duty it devolved on me, making me feel rather embarassed.MARCH.19.Saturday and rest day with us. Spent the day trying to pencil " Woodlawn "
               on paper. Poor effort as I have no artistic talent. Chaplain Thompson 40th Ga.
               preached in the evening did not hear him. Weather still pleasant. Everything quiet
               everywhere. Grant is made a Lieut. General.20.Sunday.Inspection at 9 A.M. as usual. Chaplain Thompson preached at the Church near and
               again at night. Two good sermons. Had large audiences. Sunday in camp never is as
               silent as it used to be before this cruel war began. It has turned cooler.21.Went on Brigade Guard. Lt. James (19th) is senior officer. The day is still colder
               and unpleasant. Guard relieved at 9, P.M. till morning. Left Lt. James with them and
               laid down to sleep at tattoo.MARCH.22.Ground covered with snowwhen I woke and continued to fall most of the day. Did not
               put on the guard. All however enjoyed the day snowballing. Our Brigade drove
               Jackson's from its encampment and captured Gen. J. Vaughan's, Wright's
               & Maney's drove Gist's, Steven's etc. from theirs.23.Though the snow is melting fast snowballing is the order of the day. Part of
               Walker's Div. surprised part of ours and drove them out of their camps, but they
               rallied and drove them in turn from theirs. Lt. Tillman (Co. F) is promoted to 1st
               Lt. and Sergt. Maj. Crosswell elected to fill the vacancy.24Brigade Drill by Col. Walker. Tolerably well done, but I did not enjoy it. No Drill
               in the evening. Exchange of prisoners has been partly resumed. Those of ours returned
               were warmly recieved at Richmond and fed by the ladies.MARCH.28.Went on Corps Drill. Gen. Hardee being Drill Master & drilled Cheatham's
               & Cleburne's Divisions. He issued his orders written and Div. Commanders
               with couriers and bugler. It would have been a grand sight if the situation had been
               good. Met Walker's Division going out. It commenced raining as we returned.29.Much rain last night. J.W. Crutchfield is appointed Sergt. Maj. A very good
               selection. Company Drill in the forenoon. A petition from the regt. to allow someone
               to make regular trips to West Tenn. with letters etc. has been signed by Gen.
               Johnston with the promise that some one disabled for field service be elected.30.The Co. spent the forenoon shooting at a target. Rather bad shooting and came near
               killing woman shooting her bonnet off. In the evening the 5th drilled in skirmish
               drill by Col. Lamb. The 4th by Col. Finley.MARCH.31.A Sham Battle was enacted at the Drill Field without firing. Cheatham's,
               Cleburne's and another Division were engaged. Maney's Brigade was detached
               and sent far to the right. Strahl's and 3 Regts. of Wright's the other.
               After all was formed, several movements were made without any fighting, except by the
               skirmishers, when we were moved to the right to support Maney and soon became engaged
               with the enemy, driving him before us and taking his Battery. Meanwhile a hard
               fightoccured on the left with barging success.One charge ended it. It all looked much like the reality only needing the firing to
               complete it, which I hear will be added tomorrow. Our skirmishers captured some of
               the enemy and some of ours pretended to be wounded and were carried off the
               field.APRIL.1.The boys are amusing themselves writing April Fools to one another. The sham fight is
               postponed on account of the weather which threatens rain. A meeting was called in the
               Regt. to express our indignation of the Conduct of the young ladies of West Tenn. who
               are marrying forgetful of their promises to us.2.The Committee appointed by the meeting of yesterday reported this morning all the
               Resolutions were adopted. Copies will be sent to different parts of Henry Co. I was
               one of the Committee. The meeting was tolerably generally attended by the
               regiment.3.Sunday.R.A. Burton of Co. A. has been selected as the mail carrier and starts tomorrow.
               Spent part of the day writing home xxx. The Appeal says Forrest has captured Union
               City & Paducah and burnt the latter. I hope the first is true.APRIL.4.Burton started to West Tenn. in the evening with the first Western Mail. Did not send
               any of the Resolutions as I didn't have time to copy them. I am affected with
               boils. Rained last night. Orders issued from A. & I. Gen's. office to sell
               officers no more rations.5.Brigade Drill by Gen. Strahl in the forenoon and Co. Drill in afternoon. The order to
               furlough every 10th re-enlisted man revoked. Every 25th man still to recieve them.
               Capture of City and burning of Paducah confirmed. Weather still cloudy and
               threatening.6.A beautiful sunshiny day. 4th drilled in skirmish and 5th in Battalion Drill. The 4th
               is now the Sharpshooters of the Brigade. Co. Drill in the evening. Letters recieved
               in the regt. from Henry via Mobile. None for me or news either.APRIL.7.Hardee's Sham Battle. Not able to attend. Scene said to have been grand.
               Musketry heavier than I ever heard before. As many spectators present as
               participators. Many ladies present. Several men hurt accidentally. Three rounds were
               fired. No more news from Forrest.8.A rainy, muddy day. Fast Day, generally observed. Many remained at the Church from
               early in the morning till three o clock P.M. A letter from C. Kennerly says all are
               well at my home and says Dock Newport and Capt. Kendall are dead. The latter if true
               is a heavy loss to the Co. & regt. I hope it will prove a mistake.9.Another beautiful day. No Drill as it is Saturday. Brigade Dress Parade this evening
               for the first time. On a large scale, slow & complicated, but will do as a
               change. Am getting well of the boils. Lt. L. sick and I had to take out the Co.APRIL.10.Sunday.Brigade Inspection at 9 A.M. Wagons out also. Coats required to be buttoned. Parson
               Kelly preached in the afternoon. Forrest's official report in todays paper.
               Letters recieved in Regt. from Henry. Lt. Crawford (Co. C) has returned.11.A Dispatch from Forrest to Gen. Polk is dated at Jackson Tenn. April 2nd. Brigade
               Dress Parade again. it is too tedious to be pleasant. Jim Parker has a furlough to go
               to Jackson for 30 days. Another beautiful day. Lt. Lemonds has the chills.12.Another rainy day and a very dull one as camp life all together. Jim P. recieved his
               furlough. I write home by him xxx. Rations will be issued only one day at a time
               hereafter. It is rumored Capt. Caldwell and the officers with him are captured.APRIL.13.Sunshine again. No Drill. Some of the regt. target shooting. Brigade Dress Parade in
               the evening. A man in the 19th is to be put in the stocks for desertion. Reward for
               best shots in the 4th read out. Best shot in Co. escapes one week's duty. Best
               in Regt. one month's duty. Pickets are sent out for 4 days at a time.14.Target-Shooting continues. Co's. D. & I shot in the evening. N.J. Bushart
               made best average shot. 3 out of 4 34 inches from center. Brigade Drill by Col.
               Walker in the forenoon. The Atlanta papers have stopped publication and we get no
               news.15.Rather showery in the forenoon preventing Drill. Forrest has captured Grierson at
               Somerville with two thousand (Federal) Guerrilles in West Tenn. Rebel (cant make it
               out) A female spy with a Federal Surgeons uniform on has been captured in our
               front.APRIL.16.Another difficulty about stock has occurred. They have been torn down in
               Wright's Brigade. The Guards were ordered to fire but elevated their guns. I
               fear something serious will come of it. A strike among the printers of Atlanta caused
               a suspension of the publication of papers.17.SundayFayette Cherry arrived bringing letters and clothes. I recieved two letters and some
               clothes. All are from home. They did not get my letter. Esq. Green fear Cherry will
               be Court martialed as he overstaid his time. He says the people there have lost a
               great deal, but are now in fine spirits.18.Stocks put up in the Brigade but were torn down soon, and replaced. Hail in the
               afternoon. Five or six reported killed. An attempt to destroy stocks made about dark
               but failed. Gen. Strahl who took charge of this himself when threatened. Colonel
               sentenced Cherry to 8 days at work?APRIL.19.Furloughs stopped entirely. Cooks ordered to be enlisted for each Co. Forrest's
               death confirmed. A General Review of the by Gen. J. Did not attend Dr. Iun-s preaching at night. While preaching the stocks were
               again torn down. The guard fired but missed. Officers on guard and sentinels ested. Stocks replaced immediately. Frost for several
               mornings past.20.Deserter of the 19th put in the stocks and ily guarded.
               I fear this antipathy will cause the Division to be
                  ivided. Brigade Dress Parade  evening. Lt. Howard's furlough pass book approved
               for thirty days. ight Lt. Corbitt left on furlough in
               the morning. A church is being built for the Brigade. Enemy reported as
               advancing.21.>Howard left at 12 carrying many letters, one home for
               me xxx. Paducah is said to be again captured by Buford. Capt. Caldwell reported as
                  killed.Hurst's guerrillas. Rumor of
               Stewart's Div. being sent to the front. To meet the threatened advance. APRIL.22.No rations to be issued to enlisted in the Company.23.On Brigade Guard. Capt. Ja is senior officer. Lt. Hoyle 4th is next. prisoners to put
               in stocks. I disliked it very much.24.Sunday.Rained last night, butAPRIL.25.Comp. Drill in forenoon and afternoon Brigade. Guard in the evening s other victory at26.27.APRIL.28.Lt. Neal (Co. B.) returned and assigned to duty in the Regt. Battalion Drill in
               forenoon Went off well. Inspection by Col. Lamb again. Heavy Artillery firing in
               direction of Tunnell Hill. No rumors of the cause. Capt. Wilson returns. Tandy is
               sick, having chills.29.Heavy firing still heard in front. Had measure taken for a suit of clothes. Had order
               to be ready to move at a moments warning. Polk's forces reported at Rome. Capt.
               Peeples arrived in the evening. Brigade Dress Parade. Gen. Cheatham present. Weather
               fine. Spring advancing fast. Recieved a letter from home.30.Five conversions at the meeting last night. Two large Ga. regiments arrived numbering
               2,500. Enemy's advance has fallen back.Regiment out to work in the trenches. I
               remained to make out muster rolls. Rained last night and again during the day.MAY.1.Sunday.10 men in Maney's Brdg. killed last night by a tree falling on the church.
               Buried today. Brigade reviewed by Gen. Cheatham. Inspection afterwards, then mustered
               by Lt. Chapman All now supplied with bayonets. Cloudy and sprinkled rain in the
               evening. 10 men baptized by Chaplain's Hearn & McCutchen. But few present on
               Dress Parade.2.The Revival is increasing and several others have professed. No Drill the men allowed
               to wash, as they worked Saturday. Orders again to be ready to move. Heavy cannonading
               towards Tunnell Hill, which the enemy occupied by enemy. Some commands ordered to the
               front. A battle looked for by many.3.Brigade Drill 4th & 5th did rather badly. New mode forming square tried with
               success. Rumor of another victory Kirby Smith & Price reached us. Troops sent to
               Spring Place. All quiet in front.MAY.4.Brigade worked on the defenses near the upper Spring Place road. Had charge of the
               Co. Worked two hours and off six. Returned about 4 P.M. Strict orders about
               straggling. Esq. Green and John Orr arrived, the former bringing many letters. None
               from home for me xxx. No news later than Cherry's. Still rumors of the advance
               of the enemy.5.Went to town. Spring improves its looks but still dull. Saw a man on a wooden horse.
               Dibrell's Cav. Div. passed going ing to the front. Spent an hour at Capt.
               Hope's quarters. Returned to redoubt. Brigade had been on Drill. Several persons
               baptized by Chaplain's McCutchen & Hearn and Capt. Peeples. Drill in the
               afternoon.6.Two years since we reorganized. " Battalion Drill in forenoon. Some better than
               common Co. Drill in afternoon. Rather dull. One officer in each Co. allowed to draw
               one month's pay. Enemy said to be advancing. Rumors of another victory in Va. by
               Lee over Grant.MAY.7.On Brigade Guard. Capt. Jackson Comdg. moved camp at 12 1 1/2 miles beyond Dalton
               towards Tunnell Hill. I had charge of the Prisoner Guard. Left my blanket and went
               back for it but could not find it. Skirmishing in front. Went into Bivouack. Circular
               from Gen. Johnston announces Lee's repulse of Grant and capture of many
               prisoners.8.Sunday.Left camp at 2 P.M. and moved in a roundabout way ten miles to the left to Dug Gap.
               All were nearly exhausted having moved fast. Ky. Cav. had repulsed the enemy. Arrived
               after sundown too late to see much. Worked on breast works till after midnight. Slept
               but little was so tired. Shelling heavy about night, but no damage done.9.Moved at daylight to the right near Johnson's old Brigade Camp and soon after to
               the top of the Ridge remaining there as reserve. Skirmishing going on all day and
               towards night very warm and lines engaged. Two or three men wounded. Minie balls
               flying over all the time.MAY.10.Moved further to the right before daylight and took up position in the breastworks.
               The 4th thrown out as skirmishers. Some skirmishing early in the day but enemy soon
               retired. Late in the evening the 5th relieved the 4th as skirmishers at sundown. Fell
               to my lot to stand from 1 till daylight after being drenched in a cold rain.11.Last night was as hard a one as I ever saw. Went on picket again after sunup. Much
               grumbling at Maj. Bunch. Relieved by part of 4th in an hour. Rested until 12 n. when
               we moved to near Dug Gap again the men getting their knapsacks on the way. Passed
               through town. Then enemy assaulted Mill Creek Gap just before sundown, but were
               repulsed. Gen. Polks Corps are arriving.12.The 24th and 31st & 33rd were put on picket at the Gap last night. We rested all
               day. Maney's & Wright's Brigades passed going South late in the
               afternoon. Pickets relieved before sundown. But little firing during the day. Slept
               till 10 o'clock P.M. and then moved up with the pickets several miles.MAY.13.Laid down about 3 o'clock and slept till sunup, then moved on to Resaca. Rested
               a little while and moved forward in line of battle, 4th as skirmishers and met the
               enemy who were across a creek and skirmished heavily til night. Regt. exposed and
               lost heavily. Only two killed and about 20 wounded. Capt. Ward & A.D. Beckwith
               killed & Maj. Bunch and Lts Andrews & Sidebottom wounded.14.Fortified our lines last night, half working till midnight and the other after. I did
               not sleep any myself. Went on Picket at daylight in a very warm place under cross
               fire. Relieved at noon. Spent the evening in the ditches. Skirmishing heavy, all day.
               2 of the 5th and one of the 4th wounded. Rather heavy firing on the right after 2
               P.M. Reported that we repulsed several attacks of the enemy.15.Sunday.Strengthened our works last night. Heavy skirmishing all along the lines, during the
               day. Spent day on the works. None in the regt. lost. Sharpshooters annoying. Wagons
               ordered to Adairsville. Rumors of enemy's repulse on the right.MAY.16.Being flanked we left the works at 10 last night. Arrived at town heard the pickets
               fighting creating some excitement, but soon ceased. Arrived near Calhoun before day
               formed line of battle after sunup. Moved back several miles formed again and
               bivouacked. Heavy skirmishing in the rear all day. Reports favorable to us.17.Aroused at 1 A.M. but troops moving detained us until daylight when we moved on to
               within,- miles of Adairsville. Rested till 4 P.M. when it commenced raining. Formed
               & yankees came up and the 51 & 52, 27 & 24th Skirmished with them till
               Sundown. Heavy at times. Held our position. Jim Parker arrived with letters. Two for
               me.18.Aroused at 10 o'clock last night and moved over a muddy road to 3 miles beyond
               Kingston. The men began to give out for the first time. An order read from Gen. J.
               informing us of the victory in Va. Burton arrived from Henry with three recruits.MAY.19.Formed line of Battle at 10 A.M. Sharp Skirmishing in front. Some shelling. An
               excellent Battle Order read from Gen. J. At 3 P.M. moved in double quick back to Cass
               Station (3miles) and formed on a lone ridge. 5th Regt. thrown out as Skirmishers.
               Some fighting on our right. We did not get engaged. Troops all confident and in fine
               fighting trim.20.To our surprise morning found the Army again in retreat. Called in at daylight and
               followed, catching the Brigade at Cartersville. Army moving in 4 or 5 parallel
               columns. Waited at Etowah River several hours for the wagons to cross and then
               crossed over bivouacked 2 mile further. Having slept none last night I finished the
               day sleeping. Our 3 years enlistment are out.21.Enemy has ceased pursuit. All silent in front. Slept well last night and feel better
               this morning. Spent the day quietly in bivouac. Reports of battles in La. and Va.
               recieved very favorable. Many rumors afloat. I know not what to credit.MAY.22.Sunday.Lt. Corbett and Priv. Rumbly arrived from West Tenn. bringing a couple of recruits
               apiece making 7 recruited in the regt. Again spent the day in bivouac. Coffee issued
               first for some time. Rations are plentyful for Rebels. Everything dull as can be.
               Nothing to disturb the monotony of camp.23.Lt. Howard arrived from home bringing many letters several from home for me xxx also
               a pair of boots, which are very acceptable just now. Says Lt. Harris does not talk of
               coming back again. Had orders in the evening to be ready to move. Preaching by Capt
               Peeples. Also prayer meeting at night.24.Troops commenced moving early We moved slowly at 12 and later going S.W. about 11
               miles and bivocacked at sundown. Slight rain in the afternoon. J.M.P. Alexander of
               Co. F. arrived from home bringing letters etc.MAY.25.Moved after sunup slowly at first afterwards fast. Weather warm. Gen. J. passed us
               once and we him once. Halted about one P.M. until about 11. Moved back a mile or two
               and camped on a small stream off the road. Cannon heard in rear and rumors of a
               skirmish at Dallas. Rained at sundown.26.Rainy and cold last night. slept but little. Moved along at 10 A.M. half a mile and
               rested till nearly sundown when fighting was heard towards Dallas and we moved on a
               mile or two in the rain and laid down by the roadside. Hood's Corps had a sharp
               skirmish, getting the best of it.27.In motion before daylight and took position in a gap to the left of French's
               Division. Threw out Skirmishers and set to fortifying. Sharp skirmishing to the
               right. No enemy in our immediate front.MAY.28.Moved at daylight to the left and advanced in line of battle. After some changing of
               the line was fixed and 4th & 5th thrown out as skirmishers 4th afterward
               relieved. Spent the day skirmishing, sometimes briskly. Lt. Col. Finley arrived.
               Sergt. Frazier killed, also Ben Kendall, Geo. Poyner, Haguewood & Thornton were
               wounded. 4th lost heavily. I am assigned to duty in Co's A & C.29.Sunday.All the Division and Bate's except the Picket line and Lewis Brigade sent to the
               right. Skirmishing all day. At 5 P.M. Gen. Bates ordered an advance but gave the
               signal too soon. The firing was heavy for half an hour when several were wounded.
               Col. Lamb dangerously. Gen. Ross' Brigad of Cav. arrived at night to support us.
               Strengthened our works during the night.30.Skirmishing rather heavy all day. Herron (Co. C.) killed. No others hurt. Relieved by
               the 10th S.C. at 9 P.M. and moved to the Brigade 4 miles to the right. Maj. Hampton
               is commanding the regt. Men getting greatly fatigued by the 3 days fighting.MAY.31.Aroused early and took our place at the breastworks. Spent the day resting and
               sleeping. No skirmishing in our immediate front. Some on our right. A rather heavy
               one last night. An ineffectual attempt by the Yankees resulted in 10 drunken ones
               getting into our wprks and being captured. Col. Lamb is dead.31st. illegibleSpent the day near the works. But little skirmishing on the lines. 3 shells thrown
               over us in the afternoon. All are anxious for the battle to come off, but no one
               knows anything about it. It is said they cannot flank us but will have us to fight.
               Deserters report the enemy on quarter rations. Rumors are afloat of Forrest's
               being in their rear.Great events are transpiring in Virginia, but no news reaches us from there. About 20
               men have been sent back to the regt. from the cavalry. Also Lts. Milleken, Camp and
               Simonds Weather rather warmJUNE.1.All quiet on the lines most of the day. Heavy details made to work on the works. The
               enemy have evacuated their works on the left and are moving to the right. Our forces
               have possesion of Dallas. There is great need for clean clothes among the troops.
               Rations are full.2.Comparative quiet on the lines. Some fighting, some distance to the right, and in the
               evening to the front, of our left. Rumors of a raid by Wheeler to their rear. The men
               are getting pretty well rested from their months campaign and await anxiously the
               final shock of arms.3.Reported capture of 700 prisoners by Cleburne yesterday evening. Smart Skirmishing
               near New Hope Church late in the evening. Several shells thrown over us. Making us
               " advance " on the works. A man killed in the 4th by a stray minie.JUNE.4.Several showers of rain during the day. Sharp firing to the right sent us again to
               the works. Had orders to move at 3 1/2 A.M. but only started at 4 P.M. Moved until 1
               at night through the rain, mud and dark. An awful night. Lee has gained another
               victory in Va. I suppose we are going to rejoin our Corps on the extreme right.5.SundayMost of us slept till 10 A.M. when we moved to the front on our left and formed.
               Pickets had been put out earlier. All quiet on the lines. Undergrowth cleaned out in
               front. Walker's Div. on our left fortifying. No enemy in our immediate front.
               Our left drawn in.6Spent the day fortifying and removing undergrowth in front. No enemy yet. No firing
               to be heard. Weather cloudy Worked on works until midnight. Lts. Hudson, Milliken and
               Camp have been assigned to duty here.JUNE.7.Finished the works. Was detailed with a squad to cut a road and some undergrowth in
               front. Very warm work. All silent in front. Boys are enjoying the fresh meats killed
               between the lines. Weather still cloudy. News from Va. still encouraging. The Brigade
               has lost 142 in killed and wounded since May 7th8.Inspection at 11 A.M. by Gen Strahl Two officers from the regt. to go after officers
               clothing at the baggage Train. Lts. Doyle & Howard are to go. Went over to the
               46th Regt in the evening. Quiet still continues. An extra ration issued. Rumors of
               Cavalry raid to enemy's rear and of Hood's Corps going to Va.9.Still resting. Some rain during the day. Some Skirmishing in the extreme front and
               some cannon fired to the right. Moved the whole line to the right about the length of
               2 brigades at dark and after much changing laid down to sleep.JUNE.10.Moved again at 8 A.M. about a quarter of a mile to the right and strengthened the
               works in the intervals of the rain which fell during most of the day. Enemy shelled
               Bates Div. posted on a hill in front some of them passing over the hill. Some
               skirmishing on the line and cannon to the right.11.Rain! rain!! rain!!! Vaughn's Brigade came in from picket , bringing Northern
               papers & coffee bought with tobacco etc. Enemy shelled Bate some in the evening.
               We moved about a mile to the right and rear, and bivoucked in the rain. Yankee engine
               heard whistling at Big Shantee.12.SundayAnother rainy, rainy day. Some musketry firing on the lines between showers. Spent
               the day by the fire and under the blankets trying to keep dry. Rumors of moving to
               the front in the evening.JUNE.13.It rains almost constantly day and night, keeping us very close. The roads are
               getting very muddy. Still a little firing on the lines. Cooking detail now 8 miles
               beyond Marietta making 14 from here. Rumors of more of Forrest's exploits in
               North Miss. We are ordered to be ready to move early in the morning.14.Ceased raining last evening. Moved at 8 A.M. to the works and went to work to
               strengthen them. Some shelling and preaching on the lines. Our pickets are a mile in
               front. Wright's Brigade sent to Bate's support. Gen. Polk killed. A great
               loss to us indeed.15.19th regt. exchanged for the 41st of Maney's Brig. Enemy shelled most of the
               day, throwing some over the works on our right. They drove in our pickets in evening
               to near the works. Sergt. Tom Patterson Co. I. missing. Attack expected. One third
               kept up all night. Aroused by picket skirmish at 10 P.M.JUNE.16.Some shelling and skirmishing. Wright's Pickets charged the enemy's and
               captured 5. A man in the 31st was shot by a sharpshooter. Stray minies flew over us
               at times. Enemy's pickets near on parts parts of the line. Aroused after dark
               and found the whole left moving back to another line of works. We lay down at
               midnight and slept till day.17.Our regt just missed the works. So we went to work to build some about 2 P.M. we
               moved to the left and rear to support Cleburne in a threatened attack. But it was not
               made, though shells were thrown in profusion. Heavy firing heard to the right. It is
               reported that French was attacked and repulsed it. Rain in the evening.18.Rain! rain!! again lasting almost all day. Cannonading to the right and center very
               heavy, also heavy picket firing. Rumors of charge by the enemy and death of Gen.
               Stewart. Commenced moving to the rear sundown wading a creek and muddy road.
               Bivoucked within2 miles of Marietta.JUNE.19.SundayIt still rains almost incessantly. It is said that the line fell back last night, and
               Bate's & Cleburne's Divisions are fortified this side of the creek.
               Some skirmishing and cannonading during the day. Several shells passed to the right
               and left of us. Spent the day in bivouac.20.But little rain during the day. Heavy skirmishing and shelling on the lines. Several
               shells flew over us, some falling near. Enemy drove in Lewis' pickets in the
               evening but they were driven back again at dark. Did not move during the day. Beef,
               coffee, sugar and whiskey issued at night.21.Rain at intervals. The Brigade moved before noon to the left and front and formed in
               rear of and as reserve for the Division. Heavy skirmishing in front of the Division.
               Hard at work fortifying. Some shells and minies flew over us.JUNE.22.Went on picket. Capt. Caldwell in charge of Brigade line. Had a strong position.
               Enemy drove in those on our right forcing us to fall back 200 yds. Capt. C. slightly
               wounded. Heavy shelling over us near night, which demolished some of Maney's
               works. Hood attacked them on the left driving them and capturing about 60 men.
               Relieved at dark. Weather fine.23.Comparative quiet until about 5 P.M. when a terrific cannonade commenced on
               Maney's line lasting nearly an hour when a charge was made and our pickets run
               into the works. The 4th & 5th were ordered to strengthen a salient point. The 1st
               & 27th charged, drove back the enemy regained the picket line and captured 28 or
               30 prisoners and many guns, spades and picks.24Moved back to our position in reserve at dark last night. All is queit today
               excepting an occasional gun on the picket line. Vaughn's Brig. joined in the
               charge last evening, and captured several prisoners.JUNE.25.But little firing on the picket lines and only a cannon or two now an then on
               Kennesaw. Pickets are detailed by companies or regts. The slightly sick are returning
               fast. Burton preparing to go to West Tenn. I write by him xxx. The weather is still
               fine but very warm.26.Sunday.Almost quiet on the lines this fine Sabbath morn. Weather hotter (if possible) than
               yesterday. Moved in the evening a mile or so to the left, and a little further to the
               rear. A nice quiet place. Rumor of the enemy moving to the left. Threatened rain at
               night.27.About 9 A.M. the enemy attacked our line from Kennesaw to the center of
               Cheatham's position. The cannon and musketry terrific. Were repulsed with great
               slaughter and many captured. We moved to an interval between Hindman & Cheatham.
               Under heavy shelling and remained till night.JUNE.28.Moved back to our old position of the 24th & 25th and worked all night, putting
               up works. Did not finish them until after sunup, some shelling during the day. 4th
               5th and 31st moved in the evening to our position of yesterday. Pickets again
               detailed from the different regiments.29.All the Brig. except the 41st joined us early. One of us from each Co. sent to the
               rear to make out Muster Rolls. The Yankees buried their dead under flag of truce.
               Sent to relieve part of Maney's Brig. after night. False alarm was raised after
               midnight and heavy firing ensued.30.Enemy are fortified within 50 yds of our works on our right. Sharpshooting kept up
               from the works all day. Col. Jones of 33rd killed. Relieved at 3-P.M. and moved back
               to our old position. Another alarm and another heavy firing.JULY.1.The reserves of the Brig. threw up works to protect from the shells. Comparative
               quiet all day on the lines. Stewart's Div. withdrew from the left. Heavy details
               are being made to strengthen the works at all points.2.More skirmishing than yesterday, and some shelling, cutting the R.R. between Marietta
               and the Chattahoochee. Cooking detail ordnance etc. ordered to the ranks. Aroused at
               11 P.M. and commenced falling back. All was withdrawn quietly. The pickets called in
               at 2 A.M. next morning.3.Sunday.Halted 5 or 6 miles beyond Marietta and finished the day resting. The Div. in
               reserve. The rest of the Army in line and fortifying, a half mile in front of us.
               Cannon heard in front. Regaled myself with a bait of blackberries.JULY.4.Moved up at sunup and fortified a hundred yds in rear of Walker's Div. Enemy
               drove in our Cavalry on the left and Maney's and Vaughn's and soon after
               Wright's Brigades were sent in support. Enemy's wagons in view. Much
               shelling during the day. Several passing over us. A piece of one broke Gen.
               Vaughn's leg. Fell back at 1 A.M. morning of the 5th.5.Halted after going 3 or 4 miles and slept till after sunup. Commenced throwing up log
               works, in front of the picketing at 10 A.M. Was soon put on picket. Fired on while
               fortifying. Driven into outer works late in the evening. Allen and Speight of the
               regt. wounded. Relieved by Finley's Brig. and joined the Div. which had moved to
               the left near the river. Johnson wounded in the river bathing.6.Vaughn's and Strahl's Brigades moved to the right between Bate &
               Cleburne, commenced fortifying but soon quit and spent the day lounging about.
               Weather extremely warm and little firing on the line. Troops strengthening the
               works.JULY.7.The 24th and 41st fortified on the line last night, leaving the rest of the Brigade
               in reserve. Some firing on the picket line. Archer slightly and Alexander obviously
               wounded. Heavy cannonading to the left after sundown. Relieved by Polk's Brig.
               and moved back to the river and bivouacked toward midnight.8.Spent the day at Capt. Pickett's quarters trying to get money for the officers
               of the 5th but failed. Regt. washing, and resting. Moved about sundown across the
               river and then to the extreme left. Laid down about 10 P.M. The weather extremely
               hot. Many rumors afloat of the enemy crossing the river.9.Moved back in the forenoon to the right, about a mile beyond the R.R. Rested till
               dark when we moved about a mile to the rear crossing the R.R. again. The weather
               seems to get hotter. It is thought to be a general retreat.JULY.10.SundayMoved a little to the right before noon and spent the day resting. Some rain in the
               evening. Pickets placed out in front. It is said that we still hold the line of the
               river. Tis Sunday. Preaching in the morning by Chaplain McCutchen and in the evening
               by Chaplain Hearn. Attended the latter.11.Our pickets are on the river. Some rain during the day. A little firing. Miss
               Clemmins of Weakly Co. arrived. She looked (as a rebel said) " like a rose in a
               briar patch ". She says Esq. Green will be here tomorrow with plenty of letters.
               The news from Va. is encouraging.12.Moved at sunup to near the river at an old mill to support Mercer's Brig. who
               has let enemy fortify on other bank of the river. Our Whitworth's busy firing
               across the river. Some artillery firing above and below. Some rain about nightJULY.13.Another day of rest. Comparative quiet on the river. Men spend their time picking
               berries, fishing and watching the Yankees over the river. Esq. Green arrived is
               looked for anxiously. Had orders at dark to be ready to move. It was countermanded at
               midnight. It is said Gen Bragg arrived here today.14.Though all communication is forbidden some of the men are trading with the Yankees.
               All the papers have evacuated Atlanta, except the Appeal. Esq. Green arrived in the
               morning with many letters. None from home for me xxx. The country there is overrun
               with lawless guerrillas.15." All quiet on the Chattahoochee " Gen. Strahl is calling all who have held
               communication with the Yankees to a strict account. Early is in Maryland and created
               great excitement in Washington and Baltimore.JULY.16.The news from Maryland tends to inspire enthusiasm in the troops. Papers are in great
               demand and quickly grabbed. Col. Carter is promoted to Brig. Gen. The days seem long
               while there is no excitement. Rained a little at night.17.SundaySome shelling near the old R.R. Bridge. The enemy withdrew his pickets from our front
               across the river, before sundown. The reason is not known. We were ordered to be
               ready to move about 12 o'clock but did not.18.Cavalry appeared across the river but not till our scouts had crossed and captured 2
               prisoners. Gen. Johnson issued an order saying he was ordered to turn the command
               over to Gen. Hood. All are stounded at it. Relieved after night by Cavalry and moved
               5 miles to the left of Atlanta.JULY.19.Formed in line and fortified until 12 o clock when we moved half a mile to the left
               and later in the evening commenced throwing up works, again. Finished them after
               midnight, and slept till morning. The enemy are said to be advancing in great force,
               driving back our cavalry.20.Moved early in the evening to the right and formed in two lines, Carter's Brig.
               in front. Advanced at 3 P.M. The three left Co's. deployed in front as
               skirmishers under Capt. Peeples. Advanced half a mile and came near their works.
               Carter's Brig. came up & we fought till night. L.M. Pinson killed & Lt.
               Lemonds & Howard & 13 others, officers & men wounded. Moved back into our
               works and laid down about 3 A.M.21.Aroused at daylight and moved to the right, resting an hour and passed through
               suburbs of Atlanta and out to the front and rested till night. Skirmishing and
               cannonading in front. Saw Gov. Brown, Gen. Smith and Toombs and some of the
               reserves.JULY.22.Aroused before dawn and moved far around to the right. Formed line. Walker &
               Cleburne in front who flanked and drove the enemy from their works. Further on we
               were ordered forward on the works, but the fire was too destructive and after half an
               hour we retired. Fields Lawson and Robertson killed. Capt. Caldwell & many others
               wounded. Attack said to be general.23.32 cannon and many prisoners were taken yesterday. An armistice was agreed upon and
               the dead exchanged and buried today. Went on picket last night and spent the evening
               fortifying. Meanwhile the line of battle fortified. But little firing during the day.
               Gen. Walker is killed. Also Col. Walker of the 19th and Gen Strahl slightly wounded
               yesterday.24SundayRelieved about 10 A.M. and found the Div. ready to move to the left where we
               fortified late in the evening. A few cannon fired and some slight skirmishing. Wm.
               Rumbly wounded by a strayball. Our lines are far better situated than before the
               battle.JULY.25.Completed our works and built shelters over them in the forenoon. More skirmishing
               than yesterday. Some cannon firing in front of the city. Gen. Hood issued an order
               saying that we must cease to let flanking outdo us. Six rockets were sent up by the
               enemy after dark.26.Gen. S.D. Lee is to command Hardee's old Corps. Walker's Div. is broken up.
               Gist's Brig. is attached to Cheatham's. All cooking details, com. clerks,
               Q.M. Sergts, etc. etc. are being sent to the front, and all day long they have been
               passing. Skirmishing continues on the lines.27.Enemy abandoned their works in our front last night and retired some distance. At 2
               A.M. all the troops except one Brig. of each Div. moved to the left. Our Brig. left.
               Fighting heard to the left. Many rumors afloat.JULY.28.Visited the Battleground of the 22nd. Many Guns and much ammunition has been brought
               off. Fighting still heard to the left. Went on picket in the evening, and fortified
               our positions slightly. Skirmish in front of town disturbed us a little. Weather
               warm.29.Night passed quietly. Rumors of the fight of Stewart's Corps yesterday on the
               left are various. Gen. S. is said to be wounded. Enemy is making a raid from our
               right. They burned Hardee's Baggage train this morning. Relieved before sundown
               and found the Brig. stretched out in one rank.30.Spent the day resting quietly. Sharp skirmishing towards the left. The wagon burning
               turns out not to be so bad. Railroad cut between here and Macon. No news from Va. or
               elsewhere. Not even rumors.JULY.31.Sunday.It is the Sabbath and there is almost a quiet on the lines. Rain prevented worship.
               The best I can make of the fight on the left, is that we attacked the enemy and drove
               them into their works and then retired but with heavy loss. It is said Bragg is here
               directing movements. Rumor says he has relieved Forrest. About 300 of the raiders, I
               hear are captured.Gen. Early has gained another victory in the Valley of Va. No news from Petersburg.
               The spirit of the Army injured somewhat by the change of commanders, but in general
               still look forward with hope. All are tired of the long campaign and but few if any
               relish the idea of again charging breastworks. They look with distrust upon the
               presence of Bragg here. None like it.AUGUST.1.It still rains. The Railroad is repaired between here and Macon and trains running
               through. Enemy shelled the city heavily in the evening. An order of Gen. Hood's
               says most of the raiders are captured and the others scattered. No news from other
               quarters.2.Lt. C. of Wilson (46th Tenn.) is reported killed on the 28th. Can get no particulars
               from the regiment. Gen. Strahl has been compelled to go to the rear with his wound.
               Went on picket at dark. Recieved a letter from Lt. Howard. He & Lt. Lemonds were
               at Agusta, but not doing so well.3.All quiet on the Picket line. Heavy musketry and cannonading heard on the extreme
               left and heavy skirmishing in front of city. Rumor says Ga. militia arrived last
               night. Relieved at 6 P.M.AUGUST.4.The fighting on the left yesterday turns out to have been only skirmishing. Today is
               extremely quiet. Boys are foraging for potatoes, beans, roasting ears, squashes etc.
               etc. though it is prohibited. A letter to Jim Parker from home says all the neighbors
               are well5.The Militia are getting to be very numerous here and promise to do good service.
               Strict orders regarding straggling are issued. The Yankees acknowledge a defeat at
               Petersburg. J.B. Young shot off his middle finger on his left hand accidentally,
               about dark.6.The Brig. was moved out at sunup to support the picket line, who advanced and drove
               the enemy's pickets from their posts, killing two and capturing two, and having
               two slightly wounded. They then resumed their posts and the Brig. returned to their
               posts.AUGUST.7.SundayWent on picket last evening. The night was rainy and disagreeable. Esq. Green left
               for home with letters. I wrote by him xxx. Also Jno. Brake. Adjt Kendall is acting A.
               Insp. Gen. of Brig. Relieved from Picket at 5 P.M. Found Tom Reynolds at camp when I
               returned. He is printing the Appeal Extra.8.Spent part of the day washing my clothes, an occupation I am unused to. Shelling is
               heard pretty often toward the left, also skirmishing. The enemy is threatening
               Mobile, and the news is rather discouraging. Everything goes on well in Va. yet.9.Went to town in the evening. It looks deserted, and the sacking of the 22nd left a
               marked effect. Shells were flying over every few minutes. Spent a pleasant hour with
               Miss Jane Rathburn, an old school mate. Fort Gaines at Mobile has surrendered.AUGUST.10.Rumors of our cavalry being in the enemy's rear are afloat. Rations of bread are
               so short that I am buying an extra one. The enemy tried to raise a fuss at East
               Point, I think in the evening but heavy rain interfered. Heavy cannonading was heard
               accompanied by skirmishing.11.It rains a shower or two every day and is never entirely do Enemy shelled the city with but little intermission last night. A letter from
               Lt. Lemonds says Lt. Howard is doing well. Lt. Col. Swors arrived from Henry bringing
               letters. None for me. He saw Pa. All were well.12.Enemy continues to shell the city night and day. Rumors of an enemy advance in front,
               cause orders to be issued to be ready to meet it. Shelling rather heavy beyond the
               city, in the evening. Roasting ears were issued today.AUGUST.13.Spent most of the day working on a Fort. Duty is rather hard just now. One third on
               Picket, one third at work and only one third resting. Mr __ _ ______ preached in the
               evening and administered the Sacrament. No news from Mobile.Sunday 14.Chaplain Hearn preached forenoon and Capt.in the afternoon. A shower about 2 P.M. Sharp musketry
               and cannon heard towards East Point. Enemy last night
               shelling the city. It is said that Wheeler is in the enemy's rear.15.Burton arrived with a large mail. Recd. two from home xxx. All are doing very well.
               The news from Va. and North Miss are encouraging.The situation on most of the line
               has settled down to the continual pop, pop of skirmishing.AUGUST.16.Spent most of the day writing letters. Lt. Col. Swor's resignation is accepted
               and he gos home. Recieved a letter from Lt. Lemonds. He and Lt. Howard are doing
               pretty Comparative quiet on the lines. Weather warm. Went on picket in the
               evening.17.Relieved from Picket in the evening. It is fully settled that Wheeler is in the
               enemy's rear.18.Went to Maj. Barbee's quarters also Capt Hope's. Election held for
               Congressman in 11th Dist. Vote Snead 122, Cluskey 24. Snead Majority in Brig. 98.
               Weather beautiful.AUGUST.19.Enemy's skirmishers drove in our videttes in the evening and then retired. No
               loss on our side. Cavalry report that Wheeler has torn up 30 miles of R.R. in the
               enemy's rear and captured 4 thousand prisoners. Enemy are also raiding again.
               The rest of the Div. has moved back near us.20.Enemy has cut both the West Point and Macon Railroads. They drove in the Cavalry on
               our right and surprised and captured 8 of the 41st of our Brig. but soon retired and
               the old picket line was restored. Tom Reynolds visited me.21.SundayA dispatch from Gen. Jackson says that he has scattered the raiders. The works in the
               rear of the city are being strengthened.AUGUST.22.The cars are again running through to Macon. Nothing from Wheeler that can be relied
               on. Enemy continues to shell the city night and day without ceasing, boing but little
               harm.23.Visited the Atlanta Cemetery with Rufus Olive, also the 11th and 154th Regiments.
               Spent the evening writing home. The weather has been cooler for the season. Went on
               Picket in the evening.24All quiet on the picket. I spent the day reading Vol.1 of Rollins' Ancient
               History and talking to Tom Reynolds who visited me. Rumor says Forrest has captured
               Memphis. Relieved in evening. Burton left with letters, some for me xxx.AUGUST.25.No shelling during the day of any amount. Election for Ensign, by ballot. R. Atkins
               42, J.W. Crutchfield 38, J.H. Combs 9. No election 2nd Ballot Crutchfield 50 Atkins
               4% Crutchfield elected. A good selection. Lts. Tyler, Corbitt and myself held the
               election.26.Enemy withdrew from our front last night, also from the front of the city. Moved at
               12 noon to 2 miles to the left of the city with the Div. Rumor says enemy has
               withdrawn from extreme left. Had orders to move at sundown but did not. Our batteries
               shelled the enemy heavily during the night.27.Enemy continues to disappear from our right and at daylight our Brig. was moved to
               the left to support Bate's Div. but the enemy retreating from his front after 12
               we were moved farther on to support Cleburne and bivouacked for the night.AUGUST.28.SundayMany rumors of enemy's movements, afloat. Chaplain McCutchen preached at 10 A.M.
               A very good sermon. Potts arrived from Henry. Brings me a letter from home, and a
               pair of socks. Moved about 2 P.M. half a mile beyond East Point and to right of
               W.P.R.R. Div. came up and forward on our left.29.Fortified last night and put up obstructions this morning. Reynolds & Lewis'
               Brigades have gone down the Macon R.R. Moved to the extreme left and posted pickets
               to protect the negroes. Prisoners at work. Enemy continues to move to the left.30.Moved back to the right and fortified on the left of the Div. Enemy continues to move
               to the left. We moved again to the left before sundown and contined to march till
               nearly daylight & laid down to rest.AUGUST.31.Aroused at daylight and moved on to Jonesboro, arriving there about 10 o'clock
               A.M. Found Both fortified slightly in front of the town. Cheatham's &
               Cleburne's formed on his left and Lee's Corps on his right. Stewart's
               Corps and the Militia are left at Atlanta. Our Brig. was put in rear of Tyler's
               to support it.About 3 P.M. an advance was ordered and we were soon moved forward to support them.
               We met a murderous fire of grape shrapnel and musketry. The rest of the Brig was not
               formed and we got separated from them. Seeing this we were halted and soon moved
               back. The charge was unsuccessful.Wisehart, Barnhill, Seaton and Upchurch were wounded. None killed. Lt. Hogg (4th Reg)
               was killed and Lt. Riggs & Thurman wounded. Moved to the left of Tyler and
               fortified after night sleeping but little. Enemy shelled us at intervals of 15
               minutes all night.SEPTEMBER.1.Finished fortifying in the forenoon. Soon afterward beginning on left, Gist, Wright,
               Vaughn, then Strahl were sent to the right where hard fighting was going on. We did
               not arrive till sundown. Soon marched back within a mile of Lovejoy station. The
               enemy followed.2.The Army commenced fortifying in front of us early. About 10 A.M. our Brig. took the
               place of Tyler's and I was sent on picket. Enemy soon appeared and commenced
               shelling our works. An hour before sundown their skirmishers advanced but were
               repulsed.3.Skirmishing continued all day. About 4 o'clock P.M. A heavy cannonading
               commenced. The picket post next to my right was partly demolished and I ordered it
               evacuated, but later reoccupied. Relieved at dark.SEPTEMBER.4.No shelling in front of us but some to the right and left. Atlanta has been evacuated
               and the troops arrived here. It is a severe blow, but is bravely borne by all. Were
               relieved at dark by Stewart's Corps and we moved to the right half a mile. Gen.
               Strahl has returned and commands the Brigade.5.Spent the day strengthening our works and reading Rollins. Heavy Skirmishing but no
               shelling. Some despondency begins to appear among the soldiers, but I hope it will
               soon disappear. Some rain in the evening, after which an attack was looked for but
               was not made.6.Enemy abandoned their works last night and about 10 A.M. Cheatham's Div.
               preceded by Cockrell's Brig. as skirmishers & then the Cav. moved towards
               Jonesboro. Some skirmishing. Halted within a mile of J. I went on picket at dark.SEPTEMBER.7.All quiet on the picket line. Enemy continue his move towards Atlanta. Div. moved up
               to Jonesboro in the evening and we soon followed. The railroad is literally ruined.
               Jonesboro is almost too a wreck. About 300 of our men wounded were recaptured with
               some of the Yankees.8.Visited the Battlefield in the morning. Cleburne's & Bate's Division
               passed to the front. Our Div. moved near night one mile beyond the town. Lewis'
               Brig. is to be dismounted. Enemy still falling back. Are already as far as Rough
               & Ready.9.Spent the day quietly in camp. All are busy cleaning up and repairing damages, after
               our long and hard campaign. Gen. McLellan has been nominated by the Chicage
               Convention. Damages done by the raiders have been repaired.SEPTEMBER.10.It is said that Sherman has ordered all the citizens out of Atlanta to go North of
               the Ohio or come South. Also that an armistice of 10 days has been ageed upon, by him
               and Gen Hood. I have been sick all day.11.Passed a restless night, being very sick having taken cold and am bilious & have
               fever. Preaching going on all around me but I was too sick to attend.12.Rested better last night, but am still sick.SEPTEMBER.13.Could get no Ambulance to go to Div Hospital, but had to ride a horse. Did not worst
               me very much.14.Spent a restless night and a feverish day. Fever cooled down in the evening.15.Feverish last night till midnight. After which I rested better. No fever today. Gen.
               Strahl visited the hospital.SEPTEMBER.16.No fever today. Was pretty easy all day. Tyler, Tom Buchanan and Simmonds Co. F. are
               here also. Biliou Fever is very prevalent.17.Felt pretty well in the morning, but got worse afterwards. General Review near
               town.18.Army in motion towards West Point. All the sick put on the train and sent South. 700
               yankees came up to be exchanged. We arrived at Griffin at sundown. Put in an old
               Hospital. Saw Tandy Morris and took supper with him.SEPTEMBER.19.Put on the cars and crowded up, down to Macon. Remained in the Depot all the morning.
               At last got off to the Floyd House Hospital. Placed in Dr. Green's Ward. Lt.
               Tyler, Tom Buchanan, Doodle Daniel and Lamotte are with me.20.Tried to get some clothing at the Post Q.M.'s but failed. Eat a watermelon with
               Capt. Bennett. Talked with Lt. Patton, Jose Jones, Lt. Neal, Pack Orr, Beasley &
               Aleck Farris who called to see us.21.Tried to get some money at the Pay master's but failed. Begin to feel pretty
               well. Rain in the evening.SEPTEMBER.22.Was Sent to Camp Direction but too late to get off on the cars. Registered and went
               to the Opmulgee Hospital, and spent the night. Attended the Theatre. Enjoyed it very
               well, though it was a rather bad performance. Plays were Jessie Brown and Dead
               Shot.23.Spent most of the day walking over the city. Went to the Depot in a squad of 210.
               Drew rations. Went on the cars and slept on them all night.24Started about sunup and consumed the day going to Columbus. Had a noisy drunken and
               thieving crowd in the car.SEPTEMBER.25.Could get no train and had to spend the day in Columbus. Visited Lt. Kirkpatrick. All
               the Church bells in town were ringing as I went into town. Columbus is a nice place.
               Took dinner at the Soldier's Home. Rather a rough meal.26.The squad could get no train, but Lt. Tyler, Lamotte and myself went aboard the
               freight train and proceeded. Had to wait awhile at Opelika, but arrived at West Point
               early in the night and laid down to sleep on some corn sacks.27.Slept well and took the freight again. Stopped an hour or so at Newman and arrived at
               Palmetto at 5 o'clock. Walked two miles to the Div. Found the regiment
               consolidated with the 4th, 31st, 33rd & 38th Regts. Col Keller in command.SEPTEMBER.28.Spent the day resting. Capt. Peeples & Lts. Tyler, Clark and myself are assigned
               to duty in one Co. Ensign Crutchfield and Lt. Andrews goes to West Tenn. to get
               clothing for the regt. Recieved orders just at night to be ready to move at daylight
               tomorrow. Three days rations issued.29.Moved through Palmetto and towards the Chattahoochee crossing it on a pontoon and
               halted a mile beyond, having marched 16 miles. It was a hard warm march & most of
               the men were exhausted. It is believed we are going to Blue Mountain. Supply train is
               busy crossing with reations.30.Marched 15 miles nearly up the river. Some think Marietta is the destination. The
               march was harder than yesterday. The other Corps crossed above. Rain in the evening.
               There is little or no straggling. All in fine spirits.OCTOBER.1.Marched about 12 miles overtaking Lee's & Stewart&s Corps, who by taking
               a nearer route were a day ahead of us. Camped a mile beyond the crossing of the
               Powder Springs & Villa Rica roads. Some rain in the evening. We are still
               marching towards the Railroad and are within 24 miles of Marietta.2.Rested till about 4 P.M. when we moved on after the other Corps, and after going
               about 5 miles halted at Brownsville about dark. Threatened rain but none fell.
               Hood's orders this morning speak confidently, but says we must expect short
               rations. He details the whole plan of the Campaign.3.Moved after sunup about 60 miles towards Lost mountain. Stewart & Lee preceding
               us. The former crossed the railroad. Drew and cooked rations after night. Rain in the
               evening Rations getting rather short.OCTOBER.4.Spent the day in camp. Commenced fortifying in the evening. Stewart is still at work
               on the Railroad. It continues to rain, at long intervals, night and day. Some cannon
               and picket fighting heard toward the front.5.Spent the day fortifying. The works were finished by nightfall. Good news from all
               quarters reach us by grapevine and some officially. All are in fine spirits.
               Stewart's Corps moving up the R.R. Recieved orders to cook two days rations at
               sundown. Rumor says we move in the morning.6Started at 8 A.M. and marched nearly West till sundown over a very muddy road, making
               about 10 miles. Went out and found some nice grapes and drew two days rations of
               bread and one of beef.OCTOBER.7.Moved about 7 A.M. and soon came to a very hilly or mountainous country. The regt.
               was detailed to assist the wagons of the Div. up one of the steepest ones. Halted
               after going 15 miles. I was put with 16 men on the road a mile in rear of the camp
               but had no trouble.8.Called in about 8 o'clock and started with the Brig. After going 9 miles we left
               the hills and entered a valley, halting 10 miles further on within two miles of
               Cedartown. Every preparation is made for a quick march. All the wagons are
               lightened.9.The forenoon was spent in cooking rations sending off sick etc. Moved at 1 P.M. 12
               miles to Cave Spring. Lee's Corps in front. The country and roads are rough. The
               orders about straggling are very strict.OCTOBER.10.Moved at sunup and marched to 1 mile beyond Coosaville to 13 or 14 miles, crossing
               the Coosa at Guinn's Ferry. Had to wait half an hour for the Pontoon to be
               fixed, the falling of the river and drift having broken it. All are in fine spirits,
               but marching begins to tell on most of us.11.Started at daylight and marched 18 miles over hills, mountains & valleys and to
               almost all points of the compass. The other Corps moved on other roads but met at
               night. The roads were very rough. Lt. Lemonds added to the clothing detail and starts
               home in the morning. I write by him.12.Put in motion at daylight and marched 20 miles to Sugar P.O. Lee's Corps struck
               the R.R. (W & A) at Calhoun & Resaca. The citizens are glad to see us. Did
               not reach camp until sundown. The Army is buoyant and hopeful.OCTOBER.13.Aroused early and marched hard reaching Dalton 18 miles at about 3 P.M. The garrison
               would not surrender till we had formed our lines. About 300 prisoners mostly negroes
               were captured. The negroes were very insolent. Ten pieces of artillery & were
               captured also. Worked tearing up the R.R. till about 6 P.M. when we laid down to
               sleep. Put negroes to tearing up track also.14.Aroused at daylight and went to work destroying R.R. until noon, when we started on
               the march. Enemy's cavalry pushed into town and picked up some of our
               stragglers. Reached Walker after nightfall 15 miles.15Started at 7 A.M. and marched 16 miles to within 4 of LaFayette.16Moved at 9 A.M. and marched 16 miles, passing through LaFayette. The town has been
               ruined by the Yankees. Flankers have to be placed out to watch for bushwhackers. The
               nights are very cool.OCTOBER.17Aroused at 3 o clock and marched to Alpine some say 23 miles. An awful hard march.
               Rations are more plentiful. Can bag plenty of Sorghum, potatoes, apples, etc. The
               mens feet are nearly worn out. I could hardly walk when we stopped. This is a fine
               country.18Started an hour after sunup, marched 15 miles. Our company was rear-guard. We
               arrested several stragglers and pilferers it is better marching in the rear of all
               the troops. Only Cheatham's Corps is moving on this road.19Moved at daylight and after going 15 miles again camped, within a mile or so of Coosa
               River. Met with Lee's Corps during the day. The mail came in for the first time
               in several days.OCTOBER.20Marched again at daylight going 18 miles to Gadsden. Here we met convalescents from
               the hospitals barefooted etc. Rest and clothing is promised before we move again.
               Both are much needed. The men though almost worn down are in high spirits with the
               prospect of going to Tennessee.21Spent the day in camp resting, and washing. Went at night to hear Gen's
               Beauregard, Hood, Lee, Cheatham, Cleburne, Bate, Clayton etc. speak. They all say we
               are going to Tennessee and seem confident of being able to stay if we do our
               duty.22Were to move at daylight, but had to wait till clothing was issued. And then marched
               to the top of Sand Mountain 12 miles.OCTOBER.23Started after sunup and marched 20 miles on top of the mountain, crossing Black
               Warrior River during the day. Did not reach camp till after night. Passed through a
               hard country. Rations getting scarce.24Left the direct road and marched 18 miles. Our regiment in advance. Rations are
               getting very scarce, but this mountain offers but little forage ground. Procured some
               potatoes and sat up to cook and eat them. A fine buck (deer) ran through the camp and
               was shot by a soldier.25Aroused early and placed in front again because no other Brigade was ready. Made 18
               miles going down the mountain. Soldiers are acting ridiculous, killing hogs. They are
               also ravenous after fruit.OCTOBER.26Rained last night finding me unprepared for it. Plodded through the mud about 15
               miles. Halted within 3 miles of Decatur. Heard Stewart's cannon in that
               direction late in the evening. Rumors that he has summoned them to surrender but they
               decline. Garrison variously estimated from 2 to 6 thousand.27Rained very hard last night and roads are extremely muddy. Rested till 11 A.M. when
               we moved to the front and formed in line of battle. All quiet during the day except a
               few cannon shots. Cleburne's Div came in late. Moved back to a dry place at
               sundown and camped. Drew only beef and half an ear of corn28Returned to our position of yesterday and remained all day and camped where we did
               last night. Another ear of corn issued. Our skirmishers have pushed up close to the
               enemy's works. They shell us occasionally.OCTOBER.29Moved at daylight a little to the right and formed. Some thought we were going to
               charge the works, but after remaining until 3 P.M. we withdrew and moved off West.
               Pickets leaving about sundown. We marched about 8 miles and camped. Drew bread again
               this morning.30Starting at daylight we marched about 20 miles, passing through Courtland, where the
               ladies greeted us. This is a fine country but has been desolated by the infamous
               Streight in the Spring of 1863. Barton arrived yesterday with letters. I recived
               several.31Aroused early, but halted in a field until all the Corps passed, when we marched to
               Tuscumbia, about 16 miles, reaching there about 4 P.M. Finding the country still
               desolated.OCTOBER.31.ContinuedIt makes the heart sick to pass through this once beautiful country and see it so
               desolated by the hand of the unfeeling vandals. Almost every house and fence has been
               burned, the negroes taken off and the citizens left to seek homes elsewhere. But they
               will be repaid. When we reached Tuscumbia the ranks were closed up, the command came
               to order properly, the Band struck up a a quick step piece and the ladies greeted us
               everywhere and the lively scenes of the Kentucky marchers to a certain extent
               rivaled.We have been marching so long and so hard that we are almost worn out, but it is
               hoped we will rest a few days, when we think we will enter Tenn. The cars are running
               to Cherokee 20 miles from here. I am almost barefooted and badly prepared for
               winter.NOVEMBER.1.Soap was issued and most of the day was spent in washing clothes. I worked very hard
               at it, not being able to get it done for me. All the good teams are being put into
               the supply and ordnance trains. Wood is very scarce. Rained in the Evening, and at
               night.2.Spent most of the day resting. Still somewhat showery. Moved in the evening across
               the creek. A nice place, in order to be nearer wood. Lee's Corps is across the
               river fortifying. Convalescents are coming in from Corinth.3.Rained last night sometimes hard. Ditto today. Remained all day. Forrest has captured
               2 gunboats and 5 transports near Reynoldsburg on the Tennessee River. The weather has
               turned colder.NOVEMBER.4.Recieved orders in the morning to move at 1 P.M. but it was countermanded. Drew
               jackets, Pants, Shoes and socks. Could get myself no shoes. The weather is still
               cold. The men visit the slaughter-pen and will regularly to recruit their
               rations.5.Had Brigade " Inspection at noon. Battalion Drill at 3 P.M. Brigade Dress Parade
               at 5. The Drilling was badly done. The Col. making several mistakes. Orders in
               respect to roll calls are very strict. The men grumble at drilling on short
               rations.6Inspection at 9 A.M. Preaching at 11 by Chaplain Norton. Brigade Dress Parade in the
               evening. Several ladies from town were present. It was well performed. Rumor says
               Gen. Hood is dead. It is not believed.NOVEMBER.7.Rained very hard last night, overflowing my bed and rousing me up. A showery, muddy
               day. Gen. Hood is not dead. Adjt. Kendall arrived. Lts. Neal & Kirkpatrick left
               on furlough. More captures by Forrest reported. It is said that Gen. Beauregard is
               here.8.Rained nearly all day. The creek between us and town washes away bridges as fast as
               they can be built. Ordered to be ready to move at 1 P.M. Moved at sundown crossing
               the creek and going a mile or so beyond town, through the mud. Fortunately it did not
               rain after we started.9.Another rainy day and almost too cold to keep away from the fire. Prepared to move at
               1 1/2 P.M. but the order was countermanded. Six Yankees made an attempt to cut the
               Pontoon last night, and were captured.NOVEMBER.10.Turned colder last night and this morning is bitter. Moved at day light to South
               Florence. Could not cross the River as the Pontoon is broken. Bivouacked in the woods
               and spent the day waiting. Turned warmer in the evening.11.Weather moderating. Went with Tandy two miles up the river to get peas. Considerable
               cannonading over the river for an hour. Gen. Hood discloses his plans for the closing
               campaign. It looks liting. Bought a goat and feasted
               highly in our mess.12.Pontoon-boats arrived from Cherokee and I spent most of the day watching them
               launched. Papers were recieved for the first time since we arrived here. Weather is
               beautiful.NOVEMBER.13.The Pontoon is repaired and about 9 A.M. we crossed and passing through Florence
               camped one mile West of town. The people seem glad to see us and cheered us as we
               passed. Went with Col. Howard to Capt. Ray's quarters in the evening. All of the
               Corps crossed during the day.14.Spent most of the day fortify. But little was done. The presence of the enemy was
               needed to make the men work. The Pontoon continues to break thus creating some
               trouble. Several of Aden's Co. of Cav. called on me as and we heard late news
               from home. They look well and are well dressed.15.Rain last night and a drizzling today. Finished our works in the evening. Started to
               see the Tenn. Cav. but they had moved. Gen's Hood
               & Forrest spoke in town last night. They still talk of advancing.NOVEMBER.16.Fast Day by Proclamation of the President. Heard at the Presbyterian Church two
               sermons, both very good ones. House crowded with attentive soldiers. Rained as we
               returned. Did not attend in the evening, though many did.17.Went with Tandy to Capt. Hope's quarters, but not finding him continued to Capt.
               Ray's, & took dinner and returned in the evening. Some rain last night.
               Chalmer's Div. of Cav. crossed last night and have gone towards the front.18.Went with many others to town to see Buford's Div of Cav. pass. Saw several
               acquaintances and heard directly from home.NOVEMBER.19.A cool drizzly day Cannon heard in the direction of Decatur. Shoes, pants, socks, and
               blankets issued. Rumor says we leave Monday but is divided between going forward and
               backward.4 days rations of bread issued and orders to move tomorrow at daylight. It is said
               the Pontoon will be taken up. Strict orders are issued and a Provost Guard of the
               best men detailed. All are in high spirits and anxious to be off.21.Moved after sunup slowly, through the mud about 10 miles towards Waynesboro. Snow
               fell fast till morn. The wagons and Artillery moved with difficulty, through the mud.
               It is bitter cold.NOVEMBER.22.Marched after sunup stopping at Raw Hide. Snowed soon after but little sticking.
               Entered Tennessee after 8 miles mid cheers. Wagons delayed as greatly. Colder still
               than yesterday, causing us to suffer much. Camped after going 18 miles. Only our
               Corps on this road.Went back 6 miles, within 1 mile of the " Line " and guarded up the Supply
               Train. No trouble, yet getting our guns hauled. Camped within 5 miles of last nights
               camp. Only 1/2 ration of flour and 1/2 of beef. Weather moderating. Roads not so
               muddy. Bushwhackers are numerous and bold.24Started early and soon struck across to the road Stewart was marching on and marched
               in his column till he camped when we entered the road occupied by our Corps as the
               Div came up and soon camped after going 22 miles. All are very tired.NOVEMBER.25.Aroused at daylight and the Brig took the lead of the Corps passing through
               Henryville at 10 miles crossing Buffalo at 10 1/2 and camping at 16. Met 48 Yankees
               captured by Forrest. Country is poor and desolate and though road is called pike is
               muddy. Passed several of Forrest's skirmish Fields.26.Rained a little last night. Left the ridge and hills soon and entered a fine country
               passing through Mt. Pleasant and by Bill Polk's farm and camped within 11 miles
               of Columbia making 16 miles Rained at intervals during the day. Some of the regt. are
               deserting. Enemy still at Columbia.27.Rain last night. Skirmishing and occasional cannon heard in in front.Camped within 2
               miles of Pulaski Pike. Saw Gen Forrest & cheered him, with 5 or 6 for " Old
               Frank ". Drew Pork which pleased all.NOVEMBER.28.Enemy evacuated the town last night and crossed the river. Shelled most of the day
               from the other bank. In spite of great efforts some plundering occurred during the
               morning. But few government stores captured. People welcomed the Rebels. Started late
               towards the river crossing. The bridge was uncompleted and we returned.29.Moved at daylight and crossed Duck River 6 miles above town and moved towards the
               enemy's rear. The regt. halted 4 or 5 miles beyond to picket an exposed point.
               Soon relieved and moved on catching the Div. at dark. Spring Hill in line fronting
               the enemy Forrest had driven them some. We marched about 20 miles.30.Marched at 8 A.M. Reached vicinity of Franklin, (10 Miles) at noon. Attacked the
               enemy at 5 P.M. carrying first line of works but halted at the 2nd and fought till 3
               o'clock A.M. when the enemy retired. I fell back about 10 P.M. according to
               orders. A terrible struggleDECEMBER.1.Enemy evacuated Franklin last night. The slaughter of rebels has been great. Gen.
               Strahl, Lt. Col. Johnston and Lt. Marsh killed. Edgar & Ridgway of the regt. Day
               spent in burying dead and caring for the wounded Lee's Corps followed the enemy.
               We had orders also but it was countermanded.2.Detailed before daylight to bury Yankee dead but could find no one to report to.
               Marched at 9 A.M. left the pike within 5 miles of Nashville and camped 3 miles
               further having made 17 miles. Lee is fortifying in front of the city. Rained some
               during the day.3.More rain last night. Moved up near noon to within a mile of the enemy's works
               near Mrs A.V. Brown's residence. Corn issued in leau of bread. Some skirmishing
               going on. Fortified Ranger's Hill at night.DECEMBER.4.Enemy shelled at intervals during the day. We spent it lounging and strengthening our
               works. Some of the boys are getting various things from the neutral ground. Forrest
               captured two transports and 300 mules on the river below the city. Men who have
               relatives near get 24 hours furlough's.5.Connected our fortifications with Lee's on the left. Prepared to move in the
               evening, but did not. I am the only one of the old Co. left. Morris and Miller being
               left barefooted at Franklin. We are in full view of the Capitol and can see most of
               the city. The enemy continues to shell6Forrest has made some captures at Lavergne and Bate further on. Conscripting is going
               on around us. The weather is warm and pleasant. Our breadstuffs are coarse and
               rough.DECEMBER.7.Went over to the cooking detail during the day. It turned extremely cold in the
               evening. Rumor says Murfreesboro is captured. Enemy shell little or none today. Wood
               is very scarce and we will certainly suffer from want of it.8.Recieved a pass for 24 hours and went up near Nolensville. Took dinner on the pike.
               Passed through N. It looks deserted and almost destroyed by the war. Found the people
               very hospitable and will do anything to favor a soldier. Heavy skirmishing towards
               Nashville9.Spent the night at Mr. H. Toombs Took dinner at Mrs. Murray's. It sleeted and
               snowed most of the forenoon. Did not reach camp till after night, tired from wading
               through the snow and carrying the forage we had gathered.DECEMBER.10.Last night was very cold and today is no better. Spent it around the camp-fire,
               trying to keep warm. Rumor says Bate has been driven from before Murfreesboro. The
               enemy is very quiet. Not a cannon fired during the day.11.Had orders, and kept ready to move all day. Towards night we were ordered to make
               ourselves comfortable as we would not move. Could get pay if we had Pay-Rolls.
               Weather still cold and windy. Wood is hardly to be had and we suffer much.12.Visited Pay office in the morning but could get no pay for want of Pay Accounts.
               Relieved in the evening by Bate's Div. and moved 2 miles to the right. Went on
               Picket about 8 P.M. very cold until we got a fire built.DECEMBER.13.Moved about noon 2 miles to the left and front. Cavalry still in our front. Relieved
               about 9 P.M. Found the Brigade under orders to move. Some skirmishing on the left
               during the evening Weather has moderated and the snow is melting fast.14.Very muddy on account of the thawing. Wrote a letter in the forenoon and worked on a
               fort being built near. Some cannonading during the day. Capt. Marberry (33d) has
               returned and reports 35 wagon loads of clothing at Corinth for Cheatham's Div.
               Rumor says Murfreesboro is taken and Forrest is killed.15.Heavy cannonading on the left. Called in line about 10 A.M. and formed, remaining
               till noon when we moved to the extreme left. Arrived about 4 P.M. Found them
               fighting, our Co. thrown out as skirmishers. Enemy did not advance. Relieved at
               dark.DECEMBER.16.Retired to a new line last night. Went on Picket at daylight. Heavy cannonading all
               day. Enemy advanced at 4 P.M. Finley's Brig of Bate's Div. broke and being
               hemmed in our Div was forced to retreat creating a stampede in the whole army. We
               were forced to cross a hill and more than half were captured. Such a scene I never
               before witnessed. (Bivouacked by the roadside)17.Marched to within 2 miles of Franklin, slept till day when we were moved on beyond
               town and halted to draw rations. Moved on about 10 o'clock to Spring Hill
               arriving there before sundown. It rained all day and the pike was sloppy. We marched
               in good order though exhausted.18.Moved forward at sunup almost a mile and formed and built works remaining till noon,
               when the Yankees came up we shelled them a little and moved on to a creek within 4
               miles of Columbia and crossed and camped.DECEMBER.19.Slept quietly till daylight. The enemy appeared across the creek. They were shelled
               and returned the fire. We fortified a little to the right of our camp. Being almost
               barefooted. I went on to the rear, crossed the river late, and camped with the
               cooking detail 2 miles beyond Columbia. The Brig came up after night.20.Div. moved at 9 A.M. Had gone but a mile when Gen. Hood came along and sent the Brig.
               back to bring up the rear. I went on in charge of the Barefooted Squad. Passed
               through Minnville and bivouacked after going 17 miles. Rained in the evening.21.After drying, passed on to the cooking detail and waited till the rations were cooked
               when we went on about 3 miles and put up in a hayloft. It turned cold during the day
               and moved in the evening.DECEMBER.22.Started in the cold and moved on to Pulaski. 4 miles, where we put up in a vacant
               house and spent the day around the fire. All the Infantry except the rear guard
               passed during the day. The weather is extremely cold. Nothing of the Brigade. By
               night almost all the soldiers had left town.23Drew 3 days rations of flour. Borrowed utensils and cooked them. When it was done (2
               P.M.) we started again and before night got two hogs from a drove and killed them at
               camp, 5 miles from town. The weather is moderating. Wagons are abandoned and
               ammunition destroyed.24Cooked part of our pork last night. At sunup moved on again and passing Pin-Hook
               halted 15 miles from last nights camp. Wagons and Pontoons are being left, but will
               perhaps be brought up.DECEMBER.25.A dull Christmas indeed. Travelled only about 7 miles. Halted in a good house and
               spent the night. Some are celebrating the day by firing off their guns. It is thawing
               and the roads are muddy. " Christmas dinner walnuts " so Tommy Dillon
               says.26.Tried a muddy road only about 10 miles. Took up quarters in a house again, but
               Forrest's A.A. Genl. moved us out for the Genl's. Hdqrs. Did not go but a
               hundred yards or so. The wagon trains are up with us. Cannon heard in the rear.27.Moved on to the River (6 miles) and after waiting awhile crossed and camped. The
               enemy has ceased to follow us. Part of the Pontoons will have to be burnt for want of
               wagons to haul them. Drew 3 days rations at night.DECEMBER.28.The last of the troops crossed over and we moved on with the remaining wagons,
               halting awhile at Tuscumbia and camping about sundown 5 miles beyond. The weather is
               turning colder and the wind is sharp. The cars are running to within 3 miles of
               Tuscumbia.29.Starting at sunup we passed about 5 miles to Bartow Station and until rations were
               cooked about dark, when we moved on to Cherokee (6 miles.)30.The " squad " passed and followed or halted
               awhileDECEMBER.31.Sunup found us moving and we soon reached Burneville (6 miles) where we waited till
               the Brig. came up. While waiting I visited the 7th Tenn. Cav. being near by. Marched
               with the Brig. 2 miles to camp and slept away the end of the year. It is gone and I
               cannot reit. It has been the most eventful year of my
               life. The first 2 months were occupied by my furlough and the trip to Demopolis. The
               next two in drilling and preparing for the campaign. ay
               found it opened " in earnest " in defending Dalton in front, we retreated
               to Resaca to counteract a flank movement and fought that battle and continued our
               retreat across the Estanaula and Etowah. Given a few days rest and were called to
               confront the enemy at New Hope Church where the battle was fought when we moved to
               the left cking the enemy at Ellsbury R.- skirmish line. Moved to the and fortified on approach of the enemy, we drew back left and on the 27th of fought the battle ofKennesaw Mt. the enemy repulsed. Until the 2nd of July we lay in close proximity,
               fighting and skirmishing, when we fell back slowly and by degrees crossing the
               Chattahoochee on the 5th. A resting spell ensued. Then with the new commander
               commenced the stirring campaign around Atlanta, the indecisive battles of 20th &
               22nd. The brilliant affair of the 22nd The latter part of Aug we followed Sherman on
               his flank movement to Jonesboro got repulsed in our attack on the 31st and nearly
               captured on the 1st of Sep. Retreated to Lovejoy. Gave up Atlanta. Held the enemy in
               check on the 6th he retreated. A little respite and we advanced tore up the R.R. at
               Big Shanty, again at Dalton. Advanced on Decatur, moved around crossing the Tenn. at
               Florence and moved into Tenn. Fought the hard but fruitless battle of Franklin,
               followed the enemy to Nashville. He flanked us made us fall back, stampeded us and we
               were forced to make a hard and disastrous retreat to Corinth, camping within 12 miles
               of that place on the last of the CASH ACCOUNT.- JANUARY.DateRec'd.Paid.1On hand27.004For blanket20.005loaf of bread1.0051 Mo's Pay80.006By cash of Lt. Howard7.759Mess account6.5511By cash of Lt. Lemonds3.2511For Cutting hair1.0011" Rations3.0011of C.P. Walker100.0014fare to Atlanta5.0015" Augusta8.0016Omnibus2.0016Fare to Kingsville9.0017" " Wilmington10.0017Wilmington to Weldon15.0018Weldon to Petersburg5.0018Petersburg to Richmond3.0018Hack fare " "1.0018Lodging " "3.0019Fare to Freds Hall3.0022" " Staunton2.0023Lodging & Breakfast6.0024Lodging3.0025" " Breakfast7.0025Fare to F. Hall3.2526Mending Shoes10.00Sundries during Month17.20Total Paid200.80Bal on hand78.50CASH ACCOUNT.-FEBRUARY.DateRec'd.Paid.1stTotal on Hand78.502ndFare to Richmond2.502Hack fare & Lodging4.003Fare to Petersburg2.504" " Weldon5.004" " Wilmington15.004" " Kingsville15.005" " Augusta9.005" " Atlanta10.006" " Dalton7.506B. of Lt. Howard10.00101 Mo.'s pay80.0010to C.P. Walker50.0010to Lt. Howard10.0011Pants of J.F.P.5.00156 days Rations10.0023Potatoes1.0024Paper & Envelopes2.0025Ticket at Opera2.50221 Cake1.0023Lead Pencile1.0026Lent F.M. Robertson5.00Sundries during M.10.50Total Rec.173.50" Paid163.50Bal on hand10.00CASH ACCOUNT.-MARCH.DateRec'd.Paid.1Total on hand10.003B. of J.M. Coffman20.003" " C.P. Walker10.003Paid for rations35.004Envelopes & Stamps2.0054 sheets of paper1.0011B. of M.L. Wilson10.0011for cooking utensils10.2517of Lt. H. for C. utensils2.7517of T.G.M. " "1.0017for one cake1.0017for Washing2.0026" 2 Cakes2.0028of J.M. Coffman2.0028for Rations2.00Sundries during month.50Total Rec'55.75" Paid55.7531Balance on hand00.00CASH ACCOUNT.-APRIL.DateRec'd.Paid.17From Home13.3318for paper & envelopes6.8318Lent to T.G. Morris6.5013.3313.33CASH ACCOUNT.-MAY.DateRec'd.Paid.7of Capt Peeples30.007for papers1.008Lent to T.G. Morris5.0017from home25.0023for shaving.5031Discount on $50.0010.0031Total Rec'55.00" Paid16.50Balance on hand38.50CASH ACCOUNT.-JUNE.DateRec'd.Paid.1Total on hand38.502for washing.503Paid on letter home1.003L. to N.C. Howard1.007for cak soap2.0010for soap2.0018Lent to S.A. Miller3.0023for papers etc.3.3323To W.D. Hendricks1.0025To Lt Howard2.0025" " J.M. Coffman6.6629for Ink.5030Sundries during M3.18Total Recd38.50" Paid27.50Balance on hand11.00CASH ACCOUNT.-JULY.DateRec'd.Paid.1Total on hand11.009thCakes & cider3.0013Postage Stamps1.0013paper & envelopes2.0016B. of Lt. Lemonds10.0016for Canteen10.0018To Lt. Lemonds2.0031Sundries during M.3.00Total Recd.21.00" Paid.21.00Bal. on hand00.00CASH ACCOUNT.-AUGUST.DateRec'd.Paid.4B. of C.P. Walker6.6610for Rations1.0011Postage Stamps.5011Appeal Extra.2520Com. for Rations19.8028Sundries during M.4.21Total Recd26.46" Paid5.96Bal. on hand20.50CASH ACCOUNT.---SEPTEMBER.DateRec'd.Paid.1Total on hand20.509For Soap3.0010Paper & Envelopes5.0020Pen & Ink2.5021B. of Lt. Tyler18.0021For Pants18.0026Found5.0026Cakes & Pies5.0027B. of J.F. Parker11.0028Apples1.0022ndB. of Wm. Dumas3.0022ndTheater Ticket3.0030Sundries during M.10.5030Total Rec57.50&quot; Paid47.50Bal on hand10.00CASH ACCOUNT.---OCTOBER.DateRec'd.Paid.1Total on hand10.0011 doz Apples1.001B. of S.A. Miller2.0021 doz Apples1.00To shaving.25101 pint of sorghum1.00151 quart " "1.0021Mess Account7.75Total Recd12.00" Paid12.00Bal on hand00.00CASH ACCOUNT.---NOVEMBER.DateRec'd.Paid.8B. of W.D. Hendricks20.0019B. of S.A. Miller10.0019To W.D. Hendricks10.0030for Rations8.00Total Rec30.00" Paid18.00Bal on hand12.00CASH ACCOUNT.---DECEMBER.DateRec'd.Paid.1on hand12.00810 lbs flour1.00Sundries11.00Total Recd12.00" Paid12.00Bal on hand00.00CASH ACCOUNT.---SUMMARY.Rec'd.Paid.JANUARY,218.00139.50FEBRUARY,95.00163.50MARCH,45.7555.75APRIL,13.3313.33MAY,55.0016.50JUNE,27.50JULY,10.0021.00AUGUST,26.465.96SEPTEMBER,37.0047.50OCTOBER,2.0012.00NOVEMBER,30.0018.00DECEMBER,12.00Total Recd532.5412.00" Paid532.54This diary presented to me by my lamented messmate & Phillip Kennerly (killed at
               Mission Ridge Nov. 25 1863) was kept day by day whereever I happed to be, sometimes
               in camp, or on Picket, or on the battlefield, was preserved from rain as much as
               possible under my blanket and preserved all these years. It was written in pencil and
               is now traced in ink, while serving as Chaplain of the Florida State Senate during
               the month of April 1907 at Tallahassee. This has been done at the request of my third
               son John Taliaferro, and is hereby presented to him in the hope that it will be
               preserved, and that it will afford pleasure, information and amusement. May 9th
               1907.E.H. Rennolds Sr.218.00 78.50 139.50173.50 78.50 95.00Back Cover