Page 1

Charles Pettit Esquire President of Ins. Co. N Am. Philadelphia The following text is a continuation of the first page of the letter. Sept 22 1799 Clement Biddle

Page 2

Robbin Hood hill Sept 22, 1799 DrSir Jhn Day Recd. Orders from M. Adam Gilchrist President of the Branch bank in Charleston South Carolina at whose insistance I made The Insurance form. Desaupine to make this Insurance for his friend Joshua Ward Esq. ageeably to the memorandum inclosed & M. Gilchrist adds not doubling it will be Come on as good terms and better illegible M. Desaupines. From the open situation of the premises I think it ought to be done for less, there being little but internal Risk on the Lot on which M. Wards buildings stand on at least 2/3 of an Acre illegible in front but the dwelling house lg able end of the Coach house next the street with Considerable distances between each. He also adds that "he wishes Insurance on his dwelling house No. 21. Church street, say 4000 Drs to cover his house, kitchen store house &stable. The lot on which these buildings stand is 40 feet in front illegible in the rear by 240 feet deep 2 open at the illegible and Church Street 45 feet wide. The dwelling house is

Page 3

is 26 feet on the street by 54 feet deep, an Alley of 14 feet to the southward 24 feet to the northward of said building an Entrance to the house by a wooden Plasa in the Alley 4 feet wide, a wing at the west end of the house 12 by 14 feet wide with a wooden Plasa of same. The house illegible three stories high brick and tiled - at the distance of 9 feet from the wing on the north side of the lot begins the Outbuildings is or are 18 feet wide by 56 feet long & no boundaries to the north, two stories high. Two story brick houses with Outbuildings all shingled roofs one outside his Lot 2 two room wooden stores of one story high on the opposite side of the street. Thus he says he "has noted every advantage &disadvantage except that in case of fire he is so Open behind there are nothing but wooden fences to oppose a Communication being made with meeting hadd &water sreet &having taken so much harm to make his property illegible externaly he has no doubt he shall have this same covered as cheap as any in the City. £2000 PS at the present rates wd. not replace the buildings.

Page 4

The letter nor order dont state if M. Ward buildings to be of brick tho I conclude from the description that they are where not illegible noted. Please to let me know the Rates of Insurance required against fire for One Year or for Seven. Others illegible illegible to assume this I am with Esteem Jno. Oard illegible Clement Biddle

