Page 1

M.C. Butler Poland, Ohio, Feb 4th/65 Col O P Temple: Dr Sr; Yours of Jan 19th came to hand a few days since. I am pleased to know that you and your family are well and living in a good degree of security. A late number of Brownlow's Whig came a few days since (the only copy recd for some months) containing many items of much interest to us, and not the least, that C Ramsey, Fox and Sperry are in federal hands in Knoxville. I hope that strict justice, executed in mercy, will be dealt to each of them.

Page 2

I wish I was with you, laboring successfully in my profession, to aid in establishing a new and higher order of interest in educational matters than existed there before the rebellion. But to business. I leave my claim against Dr Doak in your hands to be executed as soon as you may be able. I cannot now lay my hands on the note or I would enclose it in this. As to my claims on the estate of John Sloan (deceased) Col Craig can give you all the information necessary. Mr Craig had my papers and recd the money at the hands of Mr Sloan and paid it over to the Confed-

Page 3

erate authorities. I wish you would give early attention to this matter, for, in view of the manner was treated by Mr Sloan, I am determined to get what is due me if I can My cirtificate of deposite in the old bank of S Morrow (deceased) is in the hands of Perez Dickinson Esq. I find by reference to a letter of Robert Morrow, that my deposite was payable in S Carolina and Georgia money of the best quality. I suppose I am entitiled to Savannah or any other money of the states that I may select. I shall write soon to Mr Dickinson

Page 4

or col Baxter in regard to it. What has become of Mr Morrow's family since his decease. I supposed Col Baxter was a partner of Mr Morrow's. Will the business of the bank be settled by Col Baxter? I notice upon turning this leaf that I have written upon a port of two sheets. Hoping to hear from you in due tiem. I am Yours Truly M C Butler Mrs butler & Sister join in kind to Mrs Temple & yourself In haste, M C Butler A Feb 14/65.

