Page 1

LIFE AT ITS BEST. ---- BY J.P. WATSON. ---- [Address (in substance) at the burial of Josiah Reed, M.D., February 9, 1884.] ---- PRELIMINARY THOUGHT. Paul, in his Colossian letter, speaks to the church of Luke, "the beloved physician." Pre-eminently our brother, Dr. Reed, appears to us and to the entire community as the beloved physician. In the same connection, by the hand of Paul, Luke sent "greetings" to the Colossian brethren. Brotherly greetings were the breath of Dr. Reed's heart. Could I have his message to you to-day it would be that of cordial, brotherly greeting to all. Thus it would be, must be, or death works an unfavorable and disastrous change in human nature. GENERAL THOUGHT. I. Human life is, at its best estate, largely unsatisfactory to man. 1. Because of its darkness. And yet God has hung out lights for the way. How strange if he had not done so! The sun, moon, stars, are his lights hung out for the natural darkness. What generous expressions are these! How full of comfort and satisfaction are they to the traveler in the way! And yet how limitedly they illumine! The hills and vales are lighted up, but only that we may take surface observations. We can not see beneath. The caverns of the earth are dark, and the great body of mother earth is wholly unillumined. Even the shallow depth of the bed of death is all blackness and darkness. Gloom is the pillow of the modering head, and shadows impenetrable are the winding-sheet of the dissolving body. And in this natural light what know we of the worlds outside our own? They are interior, unknown continents, at best. That they are, we know; but of them we know but little. Nature, science, revelation, are God's lights hung out for the moral darkness of our way. This moral darkness needs illumining quite as much as the natural. God would have been inexcusable had he not illumined the former; greatly more so had he suffered the non-illumination of the latter. But nature, science, and revelation, in their order, are as the planets, moon, and sun in their order. From the planets come light. We see and appreciate this fact. We would not put out the little stars. God has lighted them as tapers for us. They yield us some light, and any measure of light gladdens the way of gloom. So nature shines, and with its finger writes the name of God in letters of love on the heart. Its voice has awakened the soul into veneration and devotion, and turned the heart of man toward his Maker. Science gives light also. The gloom of midnight is lifted into the twilight of the morning by its more genial touch. Like the moon, it stands midway between nature and revelation. With a downward glance it floods old nature with more light, transfigurating its face with richer radiance, and with an upward gaze it peers into the face of the rising sun and tells the dark world more of its God. We would not drive the queen from our heavens, but we would remember that she has her throne in the night - that she is but the harbinger of day. As the planets and the moon shine with borrowed light, so nature and science light their torches from the great central Sun of Revelation. Their torches bear to our darkened way the same kind of light, while, with uplifted fingers, they point us to the one blessed Fountain of all light. In these moral lights we can see far back into the faces of other years and ages and epochs of time. In their light we seem to stand by the great Creator while he lays again the foundations of the earth, and builds up the walls thereof, layer by layer, into glorious completion. In their light we see the present almost completely illumined, so that we need hardly walk in the darkness at all. By the side of Him who is all light, even the shadows of the grave are lifted and death itself becomes a transfiguration of glory. The valley that seemed so dark, when once we come to stand within it is suddenly transformed into a mount of Nebo-vision. But these moral lights penetrate the darkness of the future only in the faintest measure. What know we of the morrow, or who can tell what revelation the com-

Page 2

ing hour has in reservation for him? Our light sufficiently illuminates our feet as they move, our steps as they are taken, but the end of the way we may not see, nor the nearest station to our feet in that way. The future is shut out with seals that may not be broken - the morrow may be seen only in that sunshine wholly its own. But we are not content with this measure of our light. God would not have us be. The one universal ambition of the human heart is more light, and this ambition is divinely implanted. To darkness, the soul is in a state of natural antagonism. The one grand struggle of the soul is to accomplish its deliverance from this darkness. Hence with the limited light of life the soul is not, can not be satisfied. Only through the door of death can we open into the perfect light. 2. Because of its misery. Misery is the universal condition, and the word will bear to be made very emphatic. This home was the synonym of joy, gladness, sunshine, and life, but now it is transformed into misery most harrowing. The husband has fallen - the father is dead! Whose grief exceeds the widowed wife's? Who can depict the wail of woe that rises from an orphaned heart? Dark clouds have gathered here, and the storm of grief is expending its fury. But as in this home now, so in that first Edenic home six thousand years ago. Icy fingers fastened upon the second born's heart - the first family circle was broken and the first grave claimed its victim amid the beseeching protests of breaking, broken hearts. Though misery holds universal sway, yet nature, science, and revelation are unitedly and continually protesting and battling against its hold. Yet neither one nor all combined can eliminate this cruel spirit from the struggling body of perishing humanity. Despite appeals, protests, and superhuman efforts, misery sits enthroned within that palace, the walls of which must crumble yet beneath its undermining touch. To mitigate misery and lessen its fury for the hour is the end of this three-fold, benificent agency. The efforts of nature, science, and revelation are powerfully supplemented by the combined efforts of God, angels, and men. The soothings of the Divine Spirit, the whisperings of angelic love, and the generous sympathies of the human heart, are a three-fold fountain, whence issues the healing, refreshing waters of life into the sorrowing, suffering, wounded heart of man. Alleviation is the voice of their ambition and the end of their achievement. And yet despite all, misery maintains the throne, increasing its hold and sinking deeper its fangs as life increases and the years of mortality onward roll. The rosy cheek of youth is blanched into deathly pallor by age; the elastic step stiffens and halts toward the tomb; the sturdy nerve quivers under the least weight, and the manly form bows under the load of years - unerringly indicating its final destiny. Efforts at alleviation seemingly but rest the mighty foe for the final conflict, in which he involves all in irretrievable ruin. Paul expresses the painful truth when he teaches that "in this earthly house of our tabernacle we groan, being burdened;" nor will the groaning cease nor the burden be lifted until "mortality is swallowed up of life." Perfect relief can come only with the soul's exit from the body; hence perfect satisfaction can not obtain here. 3. Because of its brevity. The average of human life is hardly forty years, and yet the day was when this average was below twenty-eight years. The ambition is to improve the average. The success has been partial in localities, and yet the failure has been fearful and general. We are not satisfied with the few fitful days of the earthly life. God would not have us be. To live on and on forever is the one deep ambition of the soul of man. The one deep want is endless life. We know too well we can not have it here in earth, and yet we will have the nearest approach to it possible. How signally we fail, daily observation tells. Our brother has gained the average by care and struggle, and a dozen years beyond. But fifty-three years compared with endless life is less than a single breath compared with a life of three-score years and ten. Earth does not supply this yearning want of the heart. But it shall have supply. God has given its wish expression within every soul, and he who implanted the wish can accord the answer. "Thy dead men shall live again;""God shall call and I will answer him;""He will have a desire to the work of his

Page 3

hand;""The gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord;""We shall be like the angels of God to die no more;" "Mortality shall be swallowed up of life." Life comes through death - by a yielding of the mortal. Beyond the grave the wish of the soul shall have answer, and that life will be full of satisfaction. II. The ends and aims of true human life are three-fold. 1. Preparation. Pupilage does not cover childhood and youthhood alone, but the entire life of the really noble man. The lawyer consults his counselors, who are ever before him, in every single case. The minister studies the word meekly that he may hain the mind of the Spirit and rightly divide the word of truth to his perishing hearers. The physician carefully studies every case in the entire round of his practice, and seeks enlightenment in his profession by gathering the most perfectly digested thought of the hour. Torch in hand, the world is exploring and searching every labyrinth of information. There never was a time when the whole world was so nearly turned into a school of speculation and investigation as now. Preparation for the morrow is the one grand and noble end. Dr. Reed died in the conviction that cancer of the stomach was the cause of his death. In this judgment coincided his council of physicians in Jacksonville, Florida. A distressing thought, life-long, would it have been to the children that they might inherit the same hapless condition from their father. But the autopsy in Troy, under the eyes of twelve medical bretheren, dispels this gloom and shows that the cause of death was not correctly divined. The same symptoms, in a similar case, may now lead to a more hopeful treatment. thus we are gathering light in preparation for the morrow. Dr. Reed's life was one of special preparation. From early boyhood until later manhood he was a ceaseless student. I never knew a physician that studied his cases more carefully, and an observation of this habit in him filled me with admiration for the man. 2. Alleviation. Nature feeds the hungry, relieves the distressed, and restores the sick and perishing. Science unlocks the secrets of nature, and gathers from its vast store-house its richest treasures for the use and comfort of man. It lifts the cloud of superstition, relieves the heart of anxiety, and fixes the eye of hope with new confidence upon the present and the future. Religion comforts the distressed, fortifies the wavering, and inspires the most ambitious with brigher expectations. Philanthropy is the man transformed by nature, science, and religion into the Samaritan of sympathy, love, mercy, and helpfulness. We feel sure that the voice of the people would be, "Dr. Reed's life was that of the Samaritan." That of every true physician should be. 3. Elevation. The present plane of progress and elevation is not satisfactory. The world is seeking a higher plane with an ambition never exceeded. Foundations are being laid in a nobler physical development. Blood is securing the attention it rightfully claims. Strong minds are born of healthy bodies! Vigor of muscle will yield vigor of intellect, while both combined are the emphatic promise of an elevated morality! But the hightest plane of morality attained, the soul is not satisfied! The clogs of mortality are too weighty and human shackles bind too closely! Spiritual elevation to the spheres of a higher life, and to the companionship of nobler intelligences, is required for fullest satisfaction. Hence the apostle's wish "to depart and be with Christ." The world is full of helps toward each of these developments, and they are being appreciated and used in largest measure. Progress is making - the world is not standing still. Ambitions are being realized as almost never before. To get out of the valley into the mount of moral elevation is the wish, but from this elevation higher heights are seen beyond. As he eye would search out into the widest field of vision, so the soul would go up and go out and possess that field of vision as its own heritage. Earthly atainments do not satisfy - they are but stepping-stones to richer realities. There is a promis of something better beyond, and this promise must have answer before satisfaction can come. This promise covers the life which is to come. To the aspiring, struggling soul - to the soul almost free, the voice of the Master rings out, "Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life;""To him that over-

Page 4

cometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne." The soul uncrowned and unthroned will continue to be moved by its aspirations amid all the richer attainment of the mortal life. While there is something unattained the soul will seek it with gladdened expectations. Jesus on Olivet illustrated the blissful possibility! Ascending in a chariot of light, with angelic attendants, he showed our feet the way and opened wide the portals of life before the aspiring souls of a world. Stephen saw these portals still open to the redeemed host, and a way of unobstructed light clear up to the throne of God and the Lamb. Only through death can this higher elevation come. REMARKS PERSONAL. Dr. Josiah Reed, as a physician, was faithful to the obligations of his profession. He was sympathetic in every impulse of his being. Every patient was as a brother to him. No nobler expression of manhood is possible than in the medical profession. Were an angel to come to earth, for a life of greatest usefulness, he could hardly find a calling that would combine grander opportunities for sympathy, philanthropy, and geral helpfulness than that of the true physician. As a citizen, he was loyal, even in a time when loyalty was more than a word. Service in the ranks at Perryville and Stone River, and continued service in the national defense for three years, was full proof of this. He was sacrificing, exemplary, enterprising. As a neighbor. Life in the sunshine and shadows of his own home, for more than twelve years, justifies me in using the word perfection in my thought of Dr. Reed as a neighbor. No man could have a better. No man could be a better. As a man. A more moral man, a man whose ways seemed more perfect, I never knew. His life was beyond and above reproach. In a companionship of sixteen years his wife never heard him utter an unkind word of any living being. In the broader sense he was religious. I have uttered no thought in this address that he would not indorse and approve. Delightful conversations have I had with him which have covered nearly the entire ground of religious thought. His homeward letters from Florida breathed affectionate love, coupled with the frequent prayer, in lines which should never suffer effacement, "God bless my darlings." He who lived in such sweet communion with nature, science, and nobler humanity could but live in a daily communion with his God. While battling with encroaching death he said to his friends, "I believe in one just god, the creator and ruler of the universe. The laws of disease are inexorable, and if I were to ask to be an exception I would esteem myself selffish. Years ago I made up my mind that in order to die right one had to live right, and if one had not lived right what he might do or say at the last would have little effect in changing his condition hereafter." Hope was his star, covering time and eternity with its radiant light. We have symbolized this beautiful expression of his heart to-day by the pillow and anchor of flowers we have laid on his casket, and which will become his companions in the grave. As a husband and father. In this relationship his expression was perfect and disinterested devotion. He was never first. In his love he would be least and last. One said, "I have been in many homes in my profession as teacher but I never saw such a rich measure of devotion exhibited by any man within any home as he possessed and bestowed." "Above all things," he said to his wife, "raise up my children into useful man and womanhood;" and again, "Do not take this sorrow so much to heart." His sickness was of six weeks' duration, and his disease was acute inflammation of the stomach. His paroxysms of suffering were terrible to endure, forcing him to exclaim, "Life is not worth living when every breath is pain." Mrs. Reed was by his bedside for three weeks, exhibiting apparently superhuman endurance. That she could thus minister to him will be her life-long consolation. Strength at last seemed to gradually increase, and then the wish was, "Home, and one last farewell to the dear children." Amid great suffering he reached Cincinnati, but there gave expression to his last conscious word. he reached Troy at 1 A.M., February 7th, and died in his own home at 6:30 A.M. He did not know of his arrival home, nor that the loved children surrounded his bed in death, until the spirit struggled into the liberty of an endless life and enthroned itself about the vacated temple. He was "home at last," but in that "house not made with hands." He had reached the goal that awaits us all, and had entered into that life which, to each, may prove full of everlasing satisfaction.

