THE HARP OF COLUMBIA: A New System of Sacred
                        Music;WITH NOTES FOR EVERY SOUND, AND SHAPES FOR EVERY
                        NOTE. THE SCIENCE MADE EASY, RULES ABBREVIATED, AND OLD CHARACTERS
                        ABANDONED FOR NEW PRINCIPLES. THE SEVEN LETTERS VARIOUSLY REPRESENTING
                        NINE LINES AND SPACES, AND THE FOUR FLATS AND FOUR SHARPS TRANSPOSING
                        THE NOTES TO DIFFERENT LETTERS, LINES, AND SPACES, ARE ALL DISPENSED
                        WITH, FOR THE EASY NAME AND SHAPE OF TWO NOTES, ETC. CONTAINING
                        ANTHEMS, ODES, AND CHURCH MUSIC---ORIGINAL AND SELECTED,BY W. H. & M. L. SWAN.KNOXVILLE, TENN. PUBLISHED BY M.L. SWAN AND SOLD BY MERCHANTS GENERALLY IN E. TENN.
                    PRINTED AT KINSLOR & RICE'S STEAM POWER PRINTING ESTABLISHMENT, GAY
                    STREET. 1857. Eighth Edition. 5000 Copies.Title PageTHE HARP OF COLUMBIA: A NEW SYSTEM OF SACRED MUSIC; WITH NOTES FOR
                    EVERY SOUND, AND SHAPES FOR EVERY NOTE. THE SCIENCE MADE EASY, RULES
                    ABBREVIATED, AND OLD CHARACTERS ABANDONED FOR NEW PRINCIPLES. THE SEVEN
                    LETTERS VARIOUSLY REPRESENTING NINE LINES AND SPACES, AND THE FOUR FLATS AND
                    FOUR SHARPS TRANSPOSING THE NOTES TO DIFFERENT LETTERS, LINES, AND SPACES,
                    ARE ALL DISPENSED WITH, FOR THE EASY NAME AND SHAPE OF TWO NOTES, ETC.
                    CONTAINING ANTHEMS, ODES, AND CHURCH MUSIC, ORIGINAL AND SELECTED,BY W. H. & M. L. SWAN. PUBLISHED AND FOR SALE BY THE AUTHORS, KNOXVILLE,
                    TENN STEREOTYPED BY L. JOHNSON AND CO. PHILADELPHIA.Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1848, by W.H. & M.L. Swan,
                    in the Clerk’s Office of the District Court of the Eastern District of
                    Pennsylvania.PREFACE.In presenting the work to the public, the author has no apology to offer, save
                    that in his practice and observation as a teacher, he has witnessed the
                    difficulties and perplexities with which the learner had to contend in former
                    works: and to remove these difficulties he has instituted a new system and made
                    it plain and easy to the understanding, thus superseding a variety of characters
                    heretofore necessary, such as signatures to determine the place of the note mi,
                    letters to represent the lines and spaces of the staff, notes representing two
                    different sounds in the octave, and, on the round-note system, comparing
                    distance to get the sound, instead of naming an object from its shape.It is sometimes argued in favour of the round-note system, that the learner must
                    understand the rudiments before he can sing. This argument is futile and
                    unavailable, as all that part of the rudiments is dispensed with and unnecessary
                    in this work. The rudiments are abbreviated to half their usual length, and made
                    so plain that a correct practice of singing can easily be attained. The author
                    has composed a large number of new tunes, variously turned, that the different
                    tastes might be suited; and selected from other works a choice variety.In commending this work to a wise and generous public, he trusts the system will
                    be approved and adopted, that the world may more easily acquire a correct
                    practice of singing His praises, who gives the organ of sound, and requires all
                    his intelligent creatures to sing with the spirit and understanding: "O sing
                    unto the Lord a new song; sing unto the Lord, all the earth."W.H. SwanINTRODUCTORY REMARKS."If angels sung a Saviour's birthOn that auspicious morn,We well may imitate their mirthNow he again is born."It will not be denied, perhaps by any one, that music emanated from the great
                    Creator of our being. Neither will any one who has read the Scriptures attempt
                    to dispute His having made it our duty to praise Him by singing. And if the
                    angelic throng sing their ceaseless lays to their Creator, and thing it no stoop
                    of condescension to swell their anthems of praise in notes of the highest
                    strain, shall man, poor, dying worm of the dust, "whose breath is in his
                    nostrils," swell himself to a height above the cherubim and seraphim, and
                    disdain to sing to the praise of Him who created him and keeps him in being?Could the soul stretch forth her wings and fly to the realms of bliss, and there
                    behold, in the celestial choirs, thousands and tens of thousands of saints and
                    angels swelling the praises of their God and King, and hear the chief cherub of
                    heaven sweep o'er the strings of his golden harp, and then the whole heavenly
                    choir join in chorus with one burst of heavenly harmony, both vocal and
                    instrumental, without one languid tone or careless musician, singing, "Glory to
                    God in the highest!" "Hallelujah! for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth!" "Worthy
                    the Lamb that was slain!" "Glory, and honour, and salvation!" – she would stand
                    in amazement, and wonder that a poor dying creature of a day should disdain to
                    sing the praises of the Great and Eternal Jehovah.The science of vocal music should engage the attention of every rational and
                    intelligent creature. It should not only be studied and practised by those of
                    mature years, but also by children. It is thought by many that this science
                    cannot be pursued to advantage by children. This erroneous opinion will be
                    removed when we consider that the pleasing and delightful science of music is
                    not more difficult than the elementary branches taught in the common schools of
                    our country.Let children then not only be taught to remember the Sabbath-day to keep it holy,
                    and to read the sacred Scriptures, but let them be taught to sing praises unto
                    Him who has said, "Suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them not,
                    for of such is the kingdom of heaven." How pleasing and soul-cheering it should
                    be to parents, to hear their children raising their sweet and melodious voices
                    in praises to their Almighty Father. "Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye
                    lands: serve the Lord with gladness: come before his presence with singing."THE AUTHORS.Page 

ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES.A Brace includes the number of parts belonging to the tune. A Staff is five lines with the spaces between, on which the notes stand. This is the order throughout this work. Gs Clef stands always on the Tenor and Treble, and generally on the Counter,
                    giving the same line or space in each of these parts of the same sound. These three notes, on Tenor, Counter, and Treble, then are sounded alike. The notes below the Tenor line descend in regular order to the third space in
                    the Bass, which has the same sound: caused by the F Clef, which always stands on
                    the Bass staff, and places it a sixth below the other three parts, so that the
                    note you see on the third space of the Bass has the same sound as the note on
                    the first line of the other three parts. When the Counter is represented by the
                    F clef, it then, Like the Bass, differs from the Tenor and Treble. Degrees of the Staff and of Sound.- Make one sound, then raise your voice above
                    it, as near to it, however, as your voice will naturally come, without making
                    the same sound; this will be a degree in sound, and elevate you from the first
                    line to the first space in the staff, or, from the figure 1 to 2; and so on for
                    each degree. But universally in counting music, the first and last note, or
                    sound, is counted, viz.: two sounds differing one degree from each other is
                    called a second, and three sounds differing in like manner is called a third,
                    &c., always counting first and last notes. A single Bar divides the staff into measures. A Measure is from one bar to another. A double Bar shows the end of a strain, or end of the lines of poetry. A close shows the end of a tune. In this work you will find three modes of Common or even Time (or movement);
                    three of Triple or uneven Time; and two of Compound Time, partaking in its
                    nature both of even and uneven time, or movement. 2 over 2 marks the first mode of Common Time, sung in three seconds to the
                    measure, two or four beats, accented ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLESon the first and third parts of the measure, viz.: placing more force of voice on
                    those parts of the measure than elsewhere.4 over 4 represents the second mode of Common Time, performed in two and a half
                    seconds to the measure; two or four beats, accented on the first and third parts
                    of the measure.2 over 4 represents the third mode; sung in a second and a half, two beats,
                    accented on the first part of the measure.3 over 2 marks the first mode of Triple Time; sung in three second, three beats
                    to the measure, accented on the first.3 over 4 marks the second; sung in two seconds, three beats, accented on the
                    first.3 over 8 marks the third; sung in one second, three beats, accented on the
                    first.6 over 4 marks the first mode of Compound Time; per- formed in two and a half
                    seconds, two beats, accented on the first and fourth parts of the measure.6 over 8 marks the second mode sung; in one second and a half, two beats,
                    accented like the first.The upper figures show the number of notes in a measure. The lower figures show
                    the kind, as two halves, four fourths, two fourths. In Triple time, three
                    halves, &c.A whole note is white without a stem, called Semi- breve.A half note is white and has a stem, called Minim.A quarter is black and has a stem, called Crotchet.An eighth is black with a hook to the stem, called Quaver.A sixteenth has two hooks to the stem, called Semi- quaver.A thirty-second has three hooks to the stem, called Demi-semiquaver.A Repeat, or points in the spaces, show that you must return from the next double
                    bar or close, and sing that part, or the whole of the tune again, as the case
                    may be.The figures 1 and 2 show that the note or measure under 1, is sung before
                    repeating, and that under 2 in repeating.ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLESIf connected by a slur, both are sung in repeating.The slur always shows the number of notes sung to one syllable or word.Two or more notes having their stems joined are also sung to one syllable.A Dot or point at the right hand of a note or rest adds half to their length.The figure 3 being placed over or under three notes shows they must be performed
                    one-third quicker.A Hold or pause over a note or rest gives to that note or rest one-fourth more
                    than their usual time.A Da Capo at the apparent end of a tune shows the tune must be concluded by
                    singing the first strain.A leger line is added when notes transcend the staff.A Trill shows that the note over which it is placed should be warbled with a soft
                    roll.Staccato shows that the note over which it is placed should be sung in a short,
                    distinct, and emphatic manner.Grace notes guide the voice to the succeeding note, borrowing time from the
                    regular note.Choosing notes are set one over the other; the performer may use either of
                    them.Notes of syncopation occur where a longer note is wanted than the measure will
                    permit, then two are tied across the bar; the first should be named and the time
                    given to both.Syncope is a note out of its regular order, as in example you see the accent will
                    fall on the last half of the minim or middle note.A Prisa denotes a repetition of preceding words.A Sharp placed before a note raises it half a tone.A Flat before a note sinks it half a tone. We do not recommend their use, unless
                    by skilful performers, or upon instruments of music.ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLESMAJOR AND MINOR KEY.The last note in the Bass is always the key-note. If it be do, the piece is set
                    on the Major key, greater key, or sharp key, all meaning the same. The reason
                    for calling this the Major, or greater key, is this: begin the scale on do, and
                    ascend until you have made the seven sounds belonging to music, and you will
                    have made but one semitone; whereas, beginning on la, the Minor or lesser
                    key-not, and ascending until you have made the seven sounds, you will have made
                    two semitones. The semitones always occurring between mi and fa and si and do.
                    See Example: -In each of the above examples there is a lack of one note to complete the octave.
                    That note would be do in the example for the Major mode, and la in the Minor
                    mode. The vibrations of the organs in making the eighth sound correspond so
                    exactly with the first, (yet in double proportion,) that there is a similarity
                    in these two sounds, the 1st and 8th, not to be found in any other two of the
                    octave. This, together with the difference between the male and female voice,
                    (which is naturally an octave or eight sounds,) justifies the opinion that there
                    is but seven sounds in music, and properly throws music into octaves.The last note of the Bass in the Minor mode will be la, always. The beginning and
                    end of the strains in the Tenor will be la and mi, generally. A Minor third from
                    the first note will not always make it flat key. The strains of a Major tenor
                    begin and end differently; on do, ra, and sol, generally. A Major third
                    ascending from the first note will not always make the tune sharp key.A Major third is three sounds without a semitone. A Minor third has a
                    semitone. When the key is changed in the tune, the line and space keeps the sound,
                    although the notes differ. In anthems the key is frequently changed. Learn, from the rules given, whether the tune is set on the Major or Minor key,
                    the plainest of which is the last note in the Bass, and you will have no need of
                    signatures, such as flats and sharps, to transpose the mi from one letter on the
                    staff to another, neither will you have need for the lines and spaces of the
                    staff to be represented by letters. And all that part of the science of music
                    which has been most difficult, complicated, and mysterious to you, will be
                    useless and unnecessary in this work; but in other works these things are
                    indispensable. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.The first seven tunes in this work embrace all the different modes of time used
                    therein. The learner should practise on these until a correct knowledge of the
                    Air belonging to each ofELEMENTARY PRINCIPLESthem be acquired, also the manner of beating and accenting each mode.Singers should rest their voices frequently.They should make their sounds round and full, or oval.They should take breath on unaccented parts of the measure.They should make no unnecessary gestures.They should not accent a measure-note twice, unless there are short notes on
                    other parts to be sung at the same time.They should make the regular accent yield to emphatic words or sentences, so also
                    must the regular form of sound yield to such words: the sound may be swelled to
                    the extreme and cut off abruptly, &c., to give the words their full sense
                    and greatest expression.The singer then should emphasize, accent, and swell, sing loud or soft, to suit
                    the words.Singers should speak the words plainly and distinctly.They should "sing with the spirit and the understanding."EXERCISES ON A MAJOR KEY.Do ra mi fa sol la si do, Do si la sol fa mi ra do, Do mi sol do do sol mi do do
                    do do sol do mi sol do.EXERCISES ON A MINOR KEY.Note. – The letter d shows you must beat down under the figure 1, and the letter
                    u, that you must beat up under the figure 2.ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLESEXERCISES IN THE MAJOR MODEDIATONIC SCALEThis Tenor and Bass comprise all the sounds in an octave.Sing un-to the Lord, Sing un-to the Lord,Young men and maidens, Old men and children,Let them praise the Lord, Let them praise the Lord.The Diatonic Scale of music is a natural, gradual, succession of tones and
                    semitones in the octave. Three octaves, or twenty- two sounds, comprise the
                    extent of common voices.Do is the key of the Major mode, the Tonic, the principal, and root, around which
                    all the other notes hang and depend, and on which they centre. La, likewise, is the key of the Minor mode, and all others have reference to
                    it.A Chromatic Scale for vocal music would be unnecessary and perplexing to the
                    learner. The dividing, and sub-dividing of tones and semitones, for grace and
                    embellishment, can only be arrived at properly, and practised effectually, after
                    a thorough understanding of the Diatonic scale; which will so refine the ear and
                    taste, that such trilettoes, and variations of the as is necessary to the
                    graceful performance of music will become natural and easy.Concords. Discords.Single Chords.Their Octaves.

PART I.OLD HUNDRED.L.M.M. LUTHER.1.Before Jehovah's awful throne,Ye nations bow with sacred joy; Know that the Lord is God alone, He can create and he destroy.2.His sovereign power, without our aid,Made us of clay, and form'd us men;And when like wand'ring sheep we stray'd,He brought us to his fold again.3.We’ll crowd thy gates with thankful songs,High as the heavens our voices raise;And earth with her ten thousand tongues,Shall fill thy courts with sounding praise. 4.Wide as the world is thy command; Vast as eternity thy love; Firm as a rock thy truth must stand, When rolling years shall cease to move. ALBIONS.M.BOYD.1.Come, ye who love the Lord,And let your joys be known; Join in a song with sweet accord,And thus surround the throne, And thus surround the throne.2.Let those refuse to sing, Who never knew our God; But servants of the heavenly KingShould speak their joys abroad. 3.The men of grace have foundGlory begun below; Celestial fruits on earthly ground, From faith and hope may grow. 4.The hill of Zion yieldsA thousand sacred sweets, Before we reach the heavenly fieldsOr walk the golden streets. 5.Then let our songs abound, And every tear be dry; We’re marching through Immanuel's ground To fairer worlds on high. REFLECTION.C.M.DAVISSON.1.Blest be the dear uniting love,That will not let us part; Our bodies may far off remove,We still are one in heart, We still are one in heart.2.Join'd in one spirit to our Head, Where he appoints we go; And still in Jesus' footsteps tread, And show his praise below. 3.O may we ever walk in him, And nothing know beside, Nothing desire, nothing esteem, But Jesus crucified! 4.Closer and closer let us cleaveTo his beloved embrace; Expect his fulness to receive, And grace to answer grace. 5.Partakers of the Saviour's grace, The same in mind and heart, Nor joy, nor grief, nor time, nor place, Nor life, nor death can part. 6.But let us hasten to the day, Which shall our flesh restore; When death shall all be done away, And bodies part no more. MEAR.C.M.BROWN.1.In God's own house pronounce his praise, His grace he there reveals; To heav'n your joy and wonder raise, For there his glory dwells.2.Let all your sacred passions move, While you rehearse his deedsBut the great work of saving loveYour highest praise exceeds. 3.All that have motion, life, and breath, Proclaim your Maker blessed; Yet, when my voice expires in death, My soul shall praise him best. PROSPECT.L.M.GRAHAM.Counter by M.L. Swan.1.Why should we start and fear to die?What tim'rous worms we mortals are!Death is the gate of endless joy, And yet we dread to enter there.2. The pains, the groans, and dying strife, Fright our approaching souls away; Still we shrink back again to life, Fond of our prison and our clay. 3.Oh! if my Lord would come and meet, My soul would stretch her wings in haste; Fly fearless through death’s iron gate, Nor feel the terrors as she passed. 4.Jesus can make a dying bedFell soft as downy pillows are, While on his breast I lean my head, And breathe my life out sweetly there! GREENFIELDS.8s.EDSON.1.How tedious and tasteless the hours,When Jesus no longer I see;Sweet prospects, sweet birds, and sweet flow'rs,Have lost all their sweetness to me;The midsummer sun shines but dim, But when I am happy in him, The fields strive in vain to look gay;December's as pleasant as May.2.His name yields the richest perfume. And sweeter than music his voice; His presence disperses my gloom, And makes all within me rejoice, I should, were he always thus nigh, Have nothing to wish or to fear; No mortal so happy as I, My summer would last all the year. 3.Content with beholding his face, My all to his pleasure resigned; No changes of season or placeWould make any change in my mind. While blessed with a sense of his love, A palace a toy would appear; And prisons would palaces prove, If Jesus would dwell with me there.4. Dear Lord, if indeed I am thine, If thou art my sun and my song, Say, why do I languish and pine? And why are my winters so long? O drive these dark clouds from my sky, Thy soul-cheering presence restore; Or take me to thee up on high, Where winter and clouds are no moreNEWPORT.C.M.CALDWELL.1.As on the cross the Saviour hung,And wept, and bled, and died, He pour'd salvation on a wretch That languish'd at his side, That languish:apos;d at his side. That languish'd at his side. He pour'd salvation on a wretch, That languish’d at his side.2.His crimes, with inward grief and shame, The penitent confess’dThen turn'd his dying eyes to Christ, And thus his prayer address'd: 3."Yet quickly from these scenes of we, In triumph thou shalt rise, Burst through the gloomy shades of death, And shine above the skies.' 4.This prayer the dying Jesus heard, And instantly replies,  'Today thy parting soul shall beWith me in paradise.' 5.Jesus, thou Son and heir of Heaven, Thou spotless Lamb of God, I see thee bathed in sweat and tears, And weltering in thy blood. 6.Amid the glories of that world, Dear Saviour, think on me, And in the vict'ries of thy deathLet me a sharer be. WINDHAM.L.M.REED.1.Broad is the road that leads to death,And thousands walk together there; But wisdom shows a narrow path, With here and there a traveller.2. "Deny thyself, and take thy cross,"Is the Redeemer's great command! Nature must count her gold but dross, If she would gain the heavenly land. 3. The fearful soul, that tires and faints, And walks the ways of God no more, Is but esteem'd almost a saint, And makes his own destruction sure. 4.Lord, let not all my hopes be vain, Create my heart entirely new; Which hypocrites could ne'er attain, Which false apostates never knew. WELLS.L.M.HOLDRAD.1.Ye nations round the earth rejoiceBefore the Lord, your sovereign King,Serve him with cheerful heart and voice,With all your tongues his glory sing.2.The Lord is God, 'tis he alone, Doth life, and breath, and being give; We are his work and not our own, The sheep that on his pasture live. 3.Enter his gates with songs of joy, With praises to his courts repair, And make it your divine employ, To pay your thanks and honors there. 4. The Lord is good, the Lord is kind, Great is his grace, his mercy sure; And the whole race of man shall findHis truth from age to age endure. FAIRFIELD.C.M.HITCHCOCK.1.Alas! and did my Saviour bleed?And did my Sovereign die? Would he devote that sacred head, For such a worm as I? Would he devote that sacred head, For such a worm as I?2. Was it for crimes that I have done, He groan'd upon the tree? Amazing pity! grace unknown! And love beyond degree! 3. Well might the sun in darkness hide, And shut his glories in; When Christ, the mighty Maker, died, For man the creature's sin! 4. Thus might I hide my blushing face, While his dear cross appears; Dissolve my heart in thankfulness, And melt mine eyes to tears. 5. But drops of grief can ne'er repayThe debt of love I owe; Here, Lord, I give myself away, 'Tis all that I can do. CONSOLATION.C.M.DEAN.1.Once more, my soul, the rising daySalutes thy waking eyes, Once more, my voice, thy tribute pay To Him that rules the skies.2. Night unto night his name repeats,The day renews the sound;Wide as the heavens on which he sits,To turn the seasons round.3.'Tis He supports my mortal frame,My tongue shall speak his praise,My sins might rouse his wrath to flame,But yet his wrath delays.4.O God, let all my hours be thine,Whilst I enjoy the light;Then shall my sun in smiles decline,And bring a pleasing light.DETROIT.C.M.BRADSHAW.1.Behold the Saviour of manking,Nail'd to the shameful tree! How vast the love that him inclined,To bleed and die for thee!2.Hark how he groans while nature shakes,And earth's strong pillars bend!The temple's veil in sunder breaks,The solid marbles rend.3.'Tis done! the precious ransom's paid!"Receive my soul!" he cries;See where he bows his sacred head!He bows his head and dies!4.But soon he'll break death's envious chain,And in full glory shine:O Lamb of God! was ever pain,Was ever love like thine!SALEM.L.M.BOVILLE.1.He dies! the Friend of sinners dies! Lo! Salem's daughters weep around;A solemn darkness veils the sky, A sudden trembling shakes the ground.Come, saints, and drop a tear or twoFor him who groan'd beneath your load:He shed a thousand drops for you,A thousand drops of richer blood.2.Here's love and grief beyond degree,The Lord of glory dies for man!But lo! what sudden joys we see:Jesus, the dead, revives again!The rising God forsakes the tomb;(In vain the tomb forbids his rise;)Cherubic legions guard him home,And shout him "Welcome to the skies!"3.Break off your tears, ye saints, and tellHow high your great Deliv'rer reigns:Sing how he spoil'd the hosts of hellAnd led the monster, death, in chainsSay, "Live for ever, wondrous King! Born to redeem, and strong to save!" Then ask the monster, "Where’s thy sting?" And, "Where’s thy victory, boasting grave?" SALVATION.C.M.BOYD.1.Come, humble sinner, in whose breast A thousand thoughts revolve, "I'll go to Jesus, tho' my sin Hath like a mountain rose:I know his courts, I’ll enter in, Whatever may oppose.Come, with your guilt and fear oppress'd, And make this last resolve;"I'll go to Jesus, tho' my sin Hath like a mountain rose:I know his courts, I'll enter in, Whatever may oppose.3.'Prostrate I’ll lie before his throne,And there my guilt confess;I’ll tell him I’m a wretch undone,Without his sov'reign grace.4."But should the Lord reject my plea,And disregard my pray'r,Yet still, like Esther, I will stay,And perish only there.5."I can but perish if I go-I am resolved to try;For if I stay away, I knowI must for ever die.6."But should I die with mercy sought,When I the King have tried;I there should die, (delightful thought!)When ne'er a sinner died."NINETY-THIRD.S.M.CHAPIN.1.My Saviour and my King,Thy beauties are divine,Thy lips with blessings overflow,And ev'ry grace is thine.2.Now, make thy glory known,Gird on thy dreadful sword,And ride in majesty,to spread the conquests of thy word.3.Strike through thy stubborn foes,Or make their hearts obey, While justice, meekness, grace, and truth,Attend thy glorious way. 4.Thy laws, O God, are right, Thy throne shall ever stand; And thy victorious gospel proveA scepter in thy hand. 5.Thy Father and thy GodHath, without measure, shedHis Spirit, like a grateful oil, T'anoint thy sacred head. 6.Behold, at thy right hand,The Gentile church is seen, A beauteous bride, in rich attire, And princes guard the queen.] 7.Fair bride, receive his love, Forget thy Father"s house, Forsake thy gods, thy idol gods, And pay the Lord thy vows. 8.O let thy God and KingThy sweetest thoughts employ; Thy children shall his honour sing, And taste the heavenly joy. ERIN.C.M.SWAN.1.On Jordan's stormy banks I stand,And cast a wishful eyeWhere my possessions lie,Where my possessions lie;To Canaan's fair and happy land,Where my possessions lie.2.Oh! the transporting, rapturous sceneThat rises to my sight! Sweet fields array'd in living green, And rivers of delight! 3.On all those wide-extended plainsShines one eternal day; There God the Son for ever reigns, And scatters night away. 4.No chilling winds, nor poisonous breath, Can reach that healthful shore; Sickness and sorrow, pain and death, Are felt and feared no more! 5.When shall I reach that happy place,And be for ever blest? When shall I see my Father's face, And in his bosom rest? THEY THAT CONQUER.7s.SWAN.Jesus, Master, hear me now,While I would renew my vow,And record thy dying love,Hear and help me from above.CHORAL SONG.7s.SWAN.Swell the anthem, raise the song, Praises to our God belong; Saints and angels join to sing, Praise to heaven's almighty King. AMERICA.S.M.WHITMORE.1.My soul, repeat his praise, Whose mercies are so great, Whose anger is so slow to rise, So ready to abate.2.God will not always chide; And when his strokes are felt, His strokes are fewer than our crimes, And lighter than our guilt. 3.High as the heavens are raisedAbove the ground we tread, So far the riches of his graceOur highest thoughts exceed. 4.His power subdues our sins; And his forgiving love, Far as the east is from the west, Doth all our guilt remove. 5.The pity of the Lord, To those that fear his name, Is such, as tender parents feel-He knows our feeble frame. 6.He knows we are but dust, Scatter'd with every breath; His anger, like a rising wind, Can send us swift to death. 7.Our days are as the grass, Or like the morning flow'r: If one sharp blast sweep o'er the field, It withers in an hour. 8.But thy compassions, Lord, To endless years endure: And children's children ever findThy words of promise sure. CONVOY.7s.SWAN.Watchman, tell us of the night, What its signs of promise are;Watchman, does its beauteous rayTrav'ler, yes, it brings, the day,Trav'ler o'er yon mountain's height, See that glory beaming star.Aught of hope or joy foretell!Promised day of Israel! COME YE DISCONSOLATE!SWAN.Come, ye disconsolate, where'er ye languish,Here bring your wounded hearts, here tell your anguishCome to the mercy seat, fervently kneel;Earth has no sorrows that heaven cannot heal. SION'S SECURITY.8s. & 7s.M.L. SWAN.1.Glorious things of thee are spoken, Sion, city of our God; He, whose word can not be broken, Formed thee for his own abode: On the Rock of Ages founded, What can shake thy sure repose? With salvation's walls surrounded,Thou mayst smile at all thy foes. 2.See the streams of living waters, Springing from eternal love, Well supply thy sons and daughters, And all fear of want remove; Who can faint while such a riverEver flows their thirst t'assuage? Grace which, like the Lord, the giver, Never fails from age to age. 3.Round each habitation hovering, See the cloud and fire appear,For a glory and a covering, Showing that the Lord is near; Thus deriving from their banner, Light by night, and shade by day; Safe they feed upon the manna, Which He gives them when they pray. NATIVE COUNTRY.6s. & 4s.SWAN.1.My country! 'tis of thee, Sweet land of liberty, Of thee I sing: Land where my fathers died, Land of the Pilgrim's Pride, From ev'ry mountain side Let freedom ring, Let freedom ring. 2.My native country! thee, Land of the noble free, Thy name I love; I love thy rocks and rills , Thy woods and templed hills, My heart with rapture thrills, Like that above, Like that above. 3.Let music swell the breeze, And ring from all the trees, Sweet freedom's song, Let mortal tongues awake, Let all that breathe partakeLet rocks their silence break, The sound prolong. 4.Our fathers' God! to thee,Author of liberty, To thee we sing; Long may our land be bright, With freedom's holy light, Protect us by thy might, Great God, our King. FAREWELL.C.M.W. ATCHLEY.1.The time is swiftly rolling on,When I must faint and die;My body to the dust return,And there forgotten lie, And there forgotten lie,And there forgotten lie.My body to the dust return,And there forgotten lie. 2.Let persecution rage around,And Antichrist appear;My silent dust beneath the ground,There's no disturbance there, There's no disturbance there,There's no disturbance there.My silent dust beneath the ground,There's no disturbance there. 3.Thro' heats and colds I've often went,And wander'd in despair, To call poor sinners to repent,And seek the Saviour dear, And seek the Saviour dear,And seek the Saviour dear.To call poor sinners to repent,And seek the Saviour dear. 4.My brother preachers boldly speak,And stand on Zion's wall, T'revive the strong, confirm the weak,And after sinners call, And after sinners call,And after sinners call. T'revive the stong, confirm the weak,And after sinners call. EBENEZER.C.M.SWAN.Why should the children of a KingGo mourning all their days?Great Comforter, descend and bringSome tokens of thy grace.HOLSTON.C.M.SWAN.O for a thousand tongues to sing My dear Redeemer’s praise;The glories of my God and King,The triumphs of his grace.NEW SALEM.11s. & 8s.LEWIS.1.O Thou in whose presence my soul takes delight,On whom in affliction I call;My comfort by day and my song in the night,My hope, my salvation, my all.2.Where dost thou at noontide resort with thy sheep, To feed on the pasture of love?For why in the valley of death should I weep,Or alone in the wilderness rove? 3.Oh why should I wander an alien from thee, And cry in the desert for bread? My foes will rejoice when my sorrows they see, And smile at the tears I have shed. 4.Ye daughters of Zion, declare have you seenThe Star that on Israel shone? Say, if in your tents my Beloved has been, And where with his flocks he is gone? 5.This is my Beloved, his form is divine, His vestments shed odors around; The locks on his head are as grapes on the vine, When autumn with plenty is crown'd.6.The roses of Sharon; the lilies that grow, In the vales on the banks of the streams, On his cheeks in the beauty of excellence glow, And his eyes are as quivers of beams. 7.His voice, as the sound of the dulcimer sweet, I heard through the shadows of death; The cedars of Lebanon bow at his feet. The air is perfumed with his breath. NINETY-FIFTH.C.M.CHAPIN.1.When I can read my title clear To mansions in the skies,I'll bid farewell to ev’'ry fear,And wipe my weeping eyes.2.Should earth against my soul engage, And fiery darts be hurl'd, Then I can smile at Satan's rage, And face a frowning world. 3.Let cares like a wild deluge come,And storms of sorrow fall;May I but safely reach my home,My God, my heaven, my all. 4.There shall I bathe my weary soul,In seas of heavenly rest,And not a wave of trouble rollAcross my peaceful breast.MIDDLEBROOK.8s. & 7s.JACKSON.Counter by Swan.1.Come, thou Fount of ev'ry blessing,Tune my heart to sing thy grace;Teach me some melodious sonnet,Sung by flaming tongues above.Streams of mercy never ceasing, Call for songs of loudest praise;Praise the mount, O fix me on it,Mount of thy unchanging love. 2.Here I'll raise mine Ebenezer, Hither by thy help I'm come; And I hope, by thy good pleasure, Safely to arrive at home. Jesus sought me when a stranger, Wand'ring from the fold of God; He, to rescue me from danger, Interposed his precious blood! 3.Oh! to grace how great a debtor, Daily I’m constrain'd to be! Let thy goodness, like a fetter, Bind my wand'ring heart to thee: Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it, Prone to leave the God I love-Here's my heart, O take and seal it; Seal it for thy courts above. HOPEWELL.C.M.CALDWELL.1.When rising from the bed of death,O'erwhelm'd with guilt and fear;I view my Maker face to face,Oh how shall I appear!2.If yet while pardon may be found,And mercy may be sought,My soul with inward horror shrinks,And trembles at the thought.3.When thou, O Lord, shalt stand disclosedIn majesty severe, And sit in judgment on my soul, Oh how shall I appear! 4.Oh may my broken, contrite heartTimely my sins lament, And early, with repentant tears, Eternal wo prevent. 5.Behold the sorrows of my heart, Ere yet it be too late: And hear my Saviour's dying groan, To give those sorrows weight. 6.For never shall my soul despairHer pardon to secure, Who knows thine only Son hath diedTo make that pardon sure. BRADLEY.C.M.SWAN.1.My drowsy pow'rs, why sleep ye so?Awake, my sluggish soul;Nothing has half thy work to do,Yet nothing's half so dull.2.The little ants for one poor grainLabour, and tug, and strive, Yet we who have a heaven t'obtain, How negligent we live! 3.We for whose sake all nature stands, And stars their courses move; We for whose guard the angel bandsCome flying from above; 4.We for whom God the Son came down, And labour'd for our good, How careless to secure that crownHe purchased with his blood! 5.Lord, shall we lie so sluggish still? And never act our parts? Come, holy Dove, from th'heavenly hill, And sit and warm our hearts. 6.Then shall our active spirits move, Upward our souls shall rise: With hands of faith and wings of love, We'll fly and take the prize. CHINA.C.M.SWAN.Thee, we adore, Eternal Name,And humbly own to theeHow feeble is our mortal frame,What dying worms we be!ST. MARTINS.C.M.TANSUR.Unite my roving thoughts, unite,In silence soft and sweet,And thou, my soul, sit gently down,At thy great Sovereign's feet.AURORA.C.M.SWAN.1.When I can read my title clear To mansions in the skies…I'll bid farewell to ev'ry fear,And wipe my weeping eyes;I'll bid farewell to ev'ry fear,I'll bid farewell to ev'ry fear, And wipe my weeping eyes 2.Should earth against my soul engage, And hellish darts be hurl'd, Then I can smile at Satan's rage, And face a frowning world. 3.Let cares like a wild deluge come, And storms of sorrow fall; May I but safely reach my home, My God, my heaven, my all. 4.There shall I bathe my weary soulIn seas of heavenly rest, And not a wave of trouble rollAcross my peaceful breast. SWEET RIVERS.C.M.MORE.1.Sweet rivers of redeeming love Lie just before mine eyes; I'd rise superior to my pain, With joy outstrip the wind, I'd cross bold Jordan’s stormy main, And leave the world behind.Had I the pinions of a dove, I'd to those regions fly. 2.A few more days or years at most, My troubles will be o'er; I hope to join the heavenly hostOn Canaan's happy shore; My raptured soul shall drink and feastIn love's unbounded sea; The glorious hope of endless restIs ravishing to me. 3.Oh come, my Saviour, come away, And bear me to the skies! Nor let thy chariot wheels delayMake haste and bring it nigh; I long to see thy glorious face, And in thine image shine; To triumph in victorious graceAnd be forever thine. LENOX.P.M.EDSON.1.Blow ye the trumpet, blow,The gladly solemn soundLet all the nations know,To earth's remotest bound,The year of Jubilee is come, Return, ye ransom'd sincere, home.2.Jesus, our great High Priest, Hath full atonement made; Ye weary spirits, rest, Ye mournful souls, be glad; The year of Jubilee is come, Return, ye ransom'd sinners, home. 3.Extol the Lamb of God, The all-atoning Lamb; Redemption in his blood, Throughout the world proclaim; The year of Jubilee is come, Return, ye ransom'd sinners, home. 4.Ye who have sold for naughtYour heritage above, Shall have it back unbought, The gift of Jesus' love; The year of Jubilee is come, Return, ye ransom'd sinners, home. 5.The gospel trumpet hear,The news of heavenly grace; And, saved from earth, appearBefore your Saviour's face; The year of Jubilee is come, Return, ye ransom'd sinners, home. PLEASANT HILL.C.M.NICHOLSON.1.And let this feeble body fail,And let it faint or die;Shall join the disembodied saints,And find its long sought rest, That only bliss for which it pants, In the redeemers breast. My soul shall quit this mournful vale,And soar to worlds on high; 2.In hope of that immortal crown,I now the cross sustain; I'll suffer on my threescore years, Till my Deliv'rer come; And wipe away his servant's tears, And take his exile home. 3.Oh what hath Jesus bought for me! Before my ravish'd eyes, Rivers of life divine I see, And trees of Paradise! I see a world of spirits bright, Who taste the pleasures there! They all are robed in spotless white, And conquering palms they bear. 4.Oh what are all my sufferings here, If, Lord, thou count me meet, With that enraptured host t'appear, And worship at thy feet! Give joy or grief, give ease or pain, Take life or friends away; But let me find them all againIn that eternal day. IDUMEA.S.M.DAVISSON.01.Come, ye that love the Lord, And let your joys be known: Join in a song with sweet accord, While ye surround his throne.2.Let those refuse to sing Who never knew our God; But servants of the heavenly King May speak their joys abroad.3.The God that rules on high, That all the earth surveys, That rides upon the stormy sky, And calms the roaring seas;4.This awful god is ours, Our Father and our Love; He will send down his heavenly powers To carry us above. 5.There we shall see his face, And never, never sin, There, from the rivers of his grace, Drink endless pleasures in: 6.Yea, and before we rise To that immortal state, The thoughts of such amazing bliss Should constant joys create. 7.The men of Grace have found Glory begun below: Celestial fruit on earthly ground, From faith and hope may grow; 8.Then let our songs abound, And every tear be dry: We are marching through Immanuel's ground, To fairer worlds on high.KEDRON.L.M.DARE.Counter by Swan.1.Here, in thy name, eternal God, We build this earthly house for thee; Oh, choose it for thy fix'd abode, And guard it long from error free!2.Here, when thy people seek thy face, And dying sinners pray to live; Hear thou, in heaven, thy dwelling place, And when thou hearest, Lord, forgive.3.Here, when thy messengers proclaim The blessed gospel of thy Son, Still by the power of his great name Be mighty signs and wonders done.4.When children's voices raise the song, Hosanna! to their heavenly King, Let heaven with Earth the strain prolong, Hosanna! Let the angels sing. 5.But will, indeed, Jehovah deign Here to abide, no transient guest?Here will our great Redeemer reign,And here the Holy Spirit rest?6.Thy glory never hence depart; Yet choose not, Lord, this house alone; Thy kingdom come to every heart; In every bosom fix thy throne.CONCORD.P.M.CALDWELL.1.Ye objects of sense and enjoyments of time, Which often delighted my heart, I soon shall exchange you for joys more sublime, For joys that shall never depart.2.Thou lord of the day, and thou queen of the night, To me ye no longer are known: I soon shall behold with increasing delight, A Sun that shall never go down. 3.Ye wonderful orbs, that astonish mine eyes, Your glories receed from my sight; I soon shall contemplate more beautiful skies,And stars more transcendently bright.4.Ye mountains and valleys, groves, rivers, and plains,Thou earth, and thou ocean, adieu; More permanent regions where righteousness reigns, Present their bright hills to my view.5.My loved habitation, and garden, adieu,No longer my footsteps ye greet; A mansion celestial stands full in my view,And paradise welcomes my feet.6.My weeping relations, my brothers and friends,Whose souls are entwined with my own,Adieu for the present, my spirit ascendsWhere pleasures in mortal are known. 7.My cares and my labors, my sickness and pain,And sorrows, are now at an end; The summit of bliss I shall speedily gain,The height of perfection ascend.THE PROMISED LAND.C.M.MISS M. DURHAM.Counter by Swan, and Chorus noted.1.Come, let us use the grace divine,And all with one accord,In a perpetual covenant joinOurselves to Christ the Lord. I am bound for the promised land,I am bound for the promised land,O who will come and go with me,I am bound for the promised land.2.Give up ourselves through Jesus' power,His name to glorify;And promise in this sacred hourFor God to live and die.I am bound, &c.3.The covenant we this moment make, Be ever kept in mind;We will no more of our God forsake, Or cast his words behind.4.We never will throw off his fear,Who hears our solemn vow,And if thou art well pleased to hear,Come down, and meet us now!5.Thee, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,Let all of our hearts receive; Present with the celestial host, The peaceful answer give.6.To each the covenant blood apply, Which takes our sins away; And register our names on high, And keep us to that day.CHRISTIAN CONTEMPLATION.P.M.CALDWELL.1.O when shall I see Jesus,And reign with him above,When shall I be deliver'dFrom this vain world of sin,And with my blessed Jesus,Drink endless pleasures in?2.But now I am a soldier,My Captain's gone before,He's given me my orders,And tells me not to fear;And if I hold out faithful,A crown of life he'll give,And all his valiant soldiersEternal life shall have!3.Through Grace I am determinedTo conquer though I die,And then away to Jesus,On wings of love I'll fly.Farewell to sin and sorrow,I bid you all adieu;And you, my friends, prove faithful,And on your way pursue. 4.And if you meet with trialsAnd troubles on the way,Cast all your cares on Jesus,And don't forget to pray.Gird on the gospel armour,Of faith, and hope, and love,And when the combat's ended,You'll reign with him above.5.O! do not be discouraged,For Jesus is your friend;And if you lack for knowledge,He'll not forget to lend;Neither will he upbraid you,Though oftner you request;He'll give you grace to conquer,And take you up to rest.6.Farewell, my Christian brethren,I'm going home to God,To see my blessed Jesus,Who bought me with his blood;There I will sit and praise Him,A crown He's bought for me,And sing the song of Moses To all eternity.LONE PILGRIM.11s & 8s.M.L. SWAN.In songs of sublime adoration and praise,Ye pilgrims for Zion who press,Break forth and extol the great Ancient of days,His rich and distinguishing grace.BENEVENTO.8 lines 7s.WEBBE.1.Sinners, turn, why will ye die?God your Maker asks you why?God who did your being give,Made you with himself to live.He the fatal cause demands,Asks the work of his own hands; Why, ye thankless creatures, whyWill ye cross his love and die?2.Sinners, turn, why will ye die?God your Saviour asks you why?He who did your souls retrieve,Died himself that ye might live;Will ye let him die in vain,Crucify your Lord again?Why, ye rebel sinners, whyWill ye slight his grace and die?3.Sinners, turn, why will ye die?God the Spirit asks you why? Many a time with you he strove,Wooed you to embrace his love;Will ye not his grace receive?Will ye still refuse to live?Why will ye for ever die?O! ye guilty sinners, why?MOUNT OLIVET.L.M.SWANHark! how the choral song of heav'n,Swells full of peace and joy above;Hark! how they strike their golden harps,And raise their tuneful notes of love,And raise their tuneful notes of love.EVENING SHADE.S.M.1.The day is past and gone,The evening shades appear,Oh may we all remember well,The night of death is near.2.We lay our garments by,Upon our beds to rest;So death will soon disrobe us allOf what we here possess.3.Lord, keep us safe this night,Secure from all our fears,Beneath th' pinions of thy loveTill morning light appears.4.And when we early rise,And view th' unclouded sun,May we set out to win the prize,And after glory run.5.And when our days are past,And we from time remove,Oh! may we in thy bosom rest,The bosom of thy love.REDEEMING LOVE.C.M.CALDWELL.1.Sweet rivers of redeeming love,Lie just before mine eye;I'd rise superior to my pain,With joy outstrip the wind,I'd cross bold Jordan's stormy mainAn leave the world behind.Had I the pinions of a dove,I'd to those regions fly.I'd rise superior to my pain,With joy outstrip the wind,I'd cross bold Jordan's stormy mainAnd leave the world behind.2.A few more days, or years at most,My troubles will be o'er;I hope to join the heavenly hostOn Canaan's happy shore.My raptured soul shall drink and feastIn love's unbounded sea;The glorious hope of endless restIs ravishing to me.3.Oh come, my Saviour, come away,And bear me to the sky!Nor let thy chariot-wheels delay;Make haste and bring it nigh;I long to see thy glorious face,And in thine image shine;To triumph in victorious graceAnd be forever thine.HOME.11,11,11,5,11.Treble by Caldwell.'Mid scenes of confusion and creature complaints,How sweet to my soul is communion with saints;To find at the banquet of Mercy there's room,And feel, in the presence of Jesus, at home!Home, home, sweet, sweet home!Receive me, dear Saviour, in glory, my home!HOME, SWEET HOME.SWANMid scenes of confusion and creature complaints,How sweet to my soul is communion with saints!Home! Home! Home! Home!Sweet, sweet home,Receive me dear Saviour,In glory, my home.HEAVENLY ARMOUR.8s. & 7s.WM. WALKER.And if you meet with troublesAnd trials on the way,Gird on the heavenly armourOf faith, and hope, and love;And when the combat's ended,He'll take you up above.WARRENTON.8s. & 7s.Come, thou Fount of every blessing,Tune my heart to sing thy grace;I am bound for the kingdom,Will you go to glory with me?Hallelujah! praise the Lord!Streams of mercy, never-ceasing,Call for songs of loudest praise,I am bound for the kingdom,Will you go to glory with me?Hallelujah! praise the Lord!PROTECTION.11s.How firm a foundation, ye saints of the Lord,Is laid for your faith in his excellent word!What more can he say than to you he hath said,You unto Jesus for refuge have fled?EMERALD GATES.7s. & 6s.DAVISSON.1.Burst, ye em'rald gates, and bringTo my raptured vision,Break, ye intervening skies,Sun of Righteousness arise,Ope the gates of paradise.All th'ecstatic joys that springRound the bright Elysian,Break, ye intervening skiesLo! we lift our longing eyes,2.Floods of everlasting lightFreely flash before him,Myriads, with supreme delight,Instantly adore him;Angelic trumps resound his fame,Lutes of lucid gold proclaimAll the music of his name;Heav'n echoing the theme.3.Four and twenty elders riseFrom their princely station;Shout his glorious victories,Sing the great salvation;Cast their crowns before his throne,Cry, in reverential tone,Glory be to God alone,Holy! Holy! Holy One!4.Hark! the thrilling symphonies,Seem, methinks, to seize us;Join we to the holy lays-Jesus-Jesus-Jesus!Sweetest sound in seraph's song,Sweetest note on mortal's tongue,Sweetest carol ever sung-Jesus-Jesus flows along.NEW DURHAM.C.M.AUSTIN.1.Hark! from the tombs a doleful sound,Mine ears attend the cry;"Ye living men, come view the groundWhere you must shortly lie."Ye living men, come view the groundWhere you must shortly lie. 2."Princes, this clay must be your bed,In spite of all your towers!The tall, the wise, the reverend head,Must lie as low as ours."3. Great God! is this our certain doom?And are we still secure?Still walking downward to the tomb,And yet prepare no more?4.Grant us the power of quick'ning grace,To fit our souls to fly:Then, when we drop this dying flesh,We'll rise above the sky.IMPORTUNITY.1.Saviour, visit thy plantation,Grant us, Lord, a gracious rain;Keep no longer at a distance,Smile upon us from on high.All will come to desolation,Lest thou visit us again.Keep no longer at a distance,Smile upon us from on high.Lest for want of thine assistance,Ev'ry plant should droop and die.Keep no longer at a distance,Smile upon us from on high.3.Surely once thy garden flourish'd,Every part look'd gay and green;Then thy word our spirits nourish'd;Happy seasons we have seen!4.But a drought has since succeeded,And a sad decline we see;Lord, thy help is greatly needed;Help can only come from thee.5.Where are those we counted leaders,Fill'd with zeal, and love, and truth?Old professors, tall as cedars,Bright examples for our youth!6.Some in whom we once delighted,We shall meet no more below:Some, alas! we fear are blighted,Scarce a single leaf they show.7.Younger plants-the sight how pleasant,Cover'd thick with blossoms stood;But they cause us grief at present,Frosts have nipped them in the bud.8.Dearest Saviour, hasten hither;Thou can'st make them bloom again;Oh permit them not to wither.Let not all our hopes be vain!9.Let our mutual love be fervent,Make us prevalent in prayers;Let each one esteem'd thy servant,Shun the world's bewitching snares.10.Break the tempter's fatal power,Turn the stony heart to flesh;And begin form this good hourTo revive thy work afresh.LEANDER.C.M.AUSTIN.Jesus, the vision of thy faceHath overpow'ring charms;Scarce shall I feel death's cold embrace,If Christ be in my arms.Then, while you hear my heart-strings break,How sweet the moments roll,A mortal paleness on my cheek,And glory in my soul.1.It is the Lord - enthroned in light,Whose claims are all divine;Who has an undisputed rightTo govern me and mine.2.It is the Lord - should I distrust,Or contradict his will,Who cannot do but what is just,And must be righteous still?3.It is the Lord - who gives me allMy wealth, my friends, my ease,And, of his bounties, may recallWhatever part he please.4.It is the Lord - who can sustainBeneath the heaviest load;From whom assistance I obtainTo tread the thorny road.FLORIDA.S.M.WHETMORE.1.Let sinners take their course,And choose the road to death;But in the worship of my GodI'll spend my daily breath.But in the worship of my GodI'll spend my daily breath.2.My thoughts address his throne,When morning brings the light;I seek his blessing every noon,And pay my vows at night.3.Thou wilt regard my cries,O my eternal God!While sinners perish in surprise,Beneath thine angry rod.4.Because they dwell at easeAnd no sad changes feel;They neither fear nor trust thy name,Nor learn to do thy will.5.But I with all my caresWill lean upon the Lord:I'll cast my burdens on his arm,And rest upon his word.6.His arm shall well sustainThe children of his love;The ground on which their safety stands,No earthly power can move.NEW MARKET.C.M.CALDWELL.1.Lord, what a wretched land is this,That yields us no supply,But pricking thorns, thro' all the ground,And mortal poisons grow,And all the rivers that are found,With dang'rous waters flow.No cheering fruits, no wholesome trees,Nor streams of living joy!But pricking thorns, thro' all the ground,And mortal poisons grow,And all the rivers that are found,With dang'rous waters flow.3.Yet the dear path to thine abode,Lies through this horrid land;Lord, we would keep the heavenly road,And run at thy command.4.Our souls shall tread the desert throughWith undivided feet;And faith and flaming zeal subdueThe terrors that we meet.5.A thousand savage beasts of prey,Around the forest roam;But Judah's Lion guards the way,And guides the strangers home.6.Long nights and darkness dwell below,With scarce a twinkling ray;But the bright world to which we go,Is everlasting day.7.By glimm'ring hopes and gloomy fears,We trace the sacred road;Through dismal deeps and dang'rous snares,We make our way to God.8.Our journey is a thorny maze,But we march upwards still;Forget these troubles of the ways,And reach at Zion's hill.9.See the kind angels at the gates.Inviting us to come;There Jesus, the Forerunner, waitsTo welcome travelers home.10.There, on a green and flow'ry mount,Our weary souls shall sit-And, with transporting joys, recountThe labours of our feet.I HAVE MY TRIALS.SWAN.1.I have my trials here below,O! glory, hallelujah.I have my trials here belowO! glory, hallelujah.There's a better day a-coming, hallelujah,There's a better day a-coming, hallelujah.2.A few more beating winds and rains,O! glory, hallelujah,And the winter will be over,Hallelujah.3.A few more rising and setting suns,O! glory, hallelujah,And we'll cross over Jordan,Hallelujah.4.I feel noways like getting tired,O! glory, hallelujah,I'm making for the harbour,Hallelujah.5.I expect I shall get there by and by;O! glory, hallelujah.My home is over Jordan,Hallelujah.6.I have some friends before me gone;O! glory, hallelujah,By and by I'll go and meet them,Hallelujah.7.I'll meet them around our Father's throne,O! glory, hallelujah,And we'll live with God for ever,Hallelujah.8.O how it lifts my soul to think,O! glory, hallelujah,Of meeting in the kingdom,Hallelujah.9.Our God will wipe all tears away,O! glory, hallelujah,When we arrive at Canaan,Hallelujah.TEXAS.7s.SWAN.1.Jesus, lover of my soul,Let me to thy bosom fly,While the raging billows roll,While the tempest still is high.Hide me, O my Saviour, hide,Till the storm of life is past;Safe into the haven guide,Oh receive my soul at last!2.Other refuge have I noneHangs my helpless soul on thee;Leave, ah leave me not alone!Still support and comfort me.All my trust on thee is stayed,All my help from thee I bring;Cover my defenceless headWith the shadow of thy wing.3.Thou, O Christ, art all I want;All in all in thee I find;Raise the fallen, cheer the faint,Heal the sick and lead the blind:Just and holy is thy name,I am all unrighteousness;Vile and full of sin I am,Thou art full of truth and grace.CLINTON.L.M.SWAN.1.Awake, my soul, in joyful lays,And sing thy great Redeemer's praise;He justly claims a song from thee,-His loving kindness, O…how free!2.He saw me ruined in the fall,Yet loved me notwithstanding all,He saved me from my lost estate,-His loving-kindness, O how great!3.Though numerous host of mighty foes,Though earth and hell my way oppose,He safely leads my soul along,-His loving-kindness, O how strong!4.When trouble, like a gloomy cloud,Has gather'd thick, and thunder'd loud,He near my soul has always stood,-His loving-kindness, O how good!5.Often I feel my sinful heartProne from my Saviour to departBut though I oft have him forgot,His loving-kindness changes not.6.Soon shall I pass the gloomy vale,Soon all my mortal powers must fail;O! my my last expiring breathHis loving-kindness sing in death.SODA.C.M.P.M. ATCHLEY.1.When all thy mercies, O my God,My rising soul surveys,Unnumber'd comforts to my soulThy tender care bestow'd,Before my infant heart conceivedFrom whom those comforts flow'd.Transported with the view, I'm lostIn wonder, love, and praise,Unnumber'd comforts to my soulThy tender care bestow'd,Before my infant heart conceivedFrom whom those comforts flow'd.NEW YEAR.S.M.P.M. ATCHLEY.Eternity draws night,Life's period onward rolls,Another leaf from Time's thin scroll,Is swiftly rushing by.PARADISE.L.M.SWAN.I know that my Redeemer lives,I have a home in glory,O glory, O glory,There's room enough in ParadiseTo have a home in glory.What comfort this sweet sentence gives,I have a home in glory,O glory, O glory,There's room enough in ParadiseTo have a home in glory.ALBANY.S.M.M.L. SWANDid Christ o'er sinners weep?And shall our cheeks be dry?Let floods of penitential griefBurst forth from ev'ry eye.CHRISTMAS.C.M.WOODS.1.Shepherds, rejoice, lift up your eyes,And send your fears away;News from the regions of the skies,Salvation's born today;Jesus, the God whom angels fear,Comes down to dwell with you;Today he makes his entrance here,But not as monarchs do.3.No gold, nor purple swaddling bands,Nor royal shining things;A manger for his cradle stands,And holds the King of kings.4.Go, shepherds, where the infant lies,And see his humble throne;With tears of joy in all your eyes,Go, shepherds, kiss the Son.5.Thus Gabriel sang, and straight aroundThe heavenly armies throng;Thy tune their harps to lofty sounds,And thus conclude the song.BROOKLYN.11s.SWAN.1.I would not live alway: I ask not to stayWhere storm after storm rises dark o'er the way;The few lurid mornings that dawn on us here,Are enough for life's woes-full enough for its cheer.2.I would not live alway: no-welcome the tomb,Since Jesus hath lain there, I dread not its gloom;There, sweet be my rest, till he bid me arise,To hail him in triumph descending the skies.3.Who, who would live alway, away from his God,Away from yon heaven, that blissful abode,Where the rivers of pleasure flow o'er the bright plains,And the noontide of glory eternally reigns?4.Where the saints of all ages in harmony meet,Their Saviour and brethren transported to greet;While the anthems of rapture unceasingly roll,And the smile of the Lord is the feast of the soul.BEQUEST.8s & 10s.SWAN.When in death, I shall calm recline,Oh bear my heart to my mistress dear,Bid her not shed one tear of sorrow,To sully a heart so brilliant and bright,But balmy drops of the red grape borrow,To bathe the relic from morn till night.MESSIAH.C.M.CARBELL.1.He comes! He comes! to judge the world,Aloud th'archangel cries;Th'affrighted nations hear the sound,And upward lift their eyes;The slumb'ring tenants of the groundIn living armies rise.While thunders roll from pole to pole,And lightnings cleave the skies;Th'affrighted nations hear the sound,And upward lift their eyes;2.Amid the shouts of numerous friends,Of hosts divinely bright,The Judge in solemn pomp descends,Array'd in robes of light;His head and hair are white as snow,His eyes a fiery flame,A radiant crown adorns his brown,And Jesus is his name.3.Writ on his thigh his name appears,And scars his victories tell:Lo! in his hand the Conqueror bearsThe keys of death and hell;So he ascends the judgment-seat,And, at his dread command,Myriads of creatures round his feetIn solemn silence stand.4.Princes and peasants here expectTheir last-their righteous doom;The men who dared his grace reject,And they who dared presume:"Depart, ye sons of vice and sin,"The injured Jesus cries,While the long-kindling wrath withinFlashes from both his eyes.5.And now in words divinely sweet,With rapture in his face,Aloud his sacred lips repeatThe sentence of his grace.-"Well done, my good and faithful sons,The children of my love,Receive the sceptres, crowns, and thrones.Prepared for you above."CRUCIFIXION.P.M.DAVISSON.1.Saw ye my Saviour, Saw ye my Saviour,Saw ye my Saviour and God?Oh! he died on Calvary,To atone for you and me,And to purchase our pardon with blood.2.He was extended, he was extended,Painfully nail'd to the cross:Then he bow'd his head and died;Thus my Lord was crucified,To atone for a world that was lost.3.Jesus hung bleeding, Jesus hung bleeding,Three dreadful hours in pain;Whilst the sun refused to shine,When his Majesty divineWas derided, insulted, and slain.4.Darkness prevail'd, darkness prevail'd,Darkness prevail'd through the land;Oh! the solid rocks were rent,Through creation's vast extent,When the Jews crucified the God-Man.5.When it was finish'd, when it was finish'd,And the atonement was made,He was taken by the great,And embalm'd in spices sweet,And was in a new sepulchre laid.6.Hail, mighty Saviour! hail, mighty Saviour!Prince, and the Author of peace;Oh! he burst the bars of death,And, triumphing, left the earth,He ascended to mansions of the skies.7.Now interceding, now interceding,Pleading that sinners might live;Saying, "Father, I have died,(Oh! behold my hands and side!)To redeem them, I pray thee forgive."8."I will forgive them, I will forgive them,When they repent and believe;Let them now return to thee,And be reconciled to me,And salvation they all shall receive."DAVISSOn'S RETIREMENT.L.M.DAVISSON.1.Jesus, and shall it ever be,A mortal man ashamed of thee?Ashamed of thee, whom angels praise,Whose glories shine through endless days!2.Ashamed of Jesus! sooner farLet evening blush to own a star;He sheds the beams of light divineO'er this benighted soul of mine.3.Ashamed of Jesus! just as soonLet midnight be ashamed of noon:'Tis midnight with my soul, till He,Bright Morning Star, bid darkness flee.4.Ashamed of Jesus! that dear friendOn whom my hopes of heaven depend!No, when I blush - be this my shame,That I no more revere his name.5.Ashamed of Jesus! yes I may,When I've no guilt to wash away,No tear to wipe, no good to crave,No fears to quell, no soul to save.6.Till then - nor is my boasting vain -Till then I boast a Saviour slain!And oh! may this my glory be,That Christ is not ashamed of me!7.His institutions would I prize,Take up my cross - the shame despise;Dare to defend his noble cause,And yield obedience to his laws.ANTICIPATION.C.M.M.L. SWAN.Awake our souls, away our fears!When we get to heaven we will part no more;Fare you well, Oh! fare you well,When we get to heaven we will part no more!Awake, and run the heavenly race; When we get, &c.Let ev'ry trembling thought be gone;When we get, &c.And put a cheerful courage on;When we get, &c.LORINDA.8,6,8,6,8,8,8,6.SWAN.Sing hallelujah, praise the Lord!Sing with a cheerful voice!Ne'er cease to sing, thou ransom'd host,Till in the realms of endless light,Your praises shall unite.Exalt our God with one accord,And in His name rejoice!To Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,Till in the realms of endless light,Your praises shall unite.PERSIA.11s.SWAN.1.As down a lone valley with cedars o'er-spread,From war's dread confusion I pensively stray'dThe gloom from the face of fair nature retired,The winds hush'd their murmurs, the thunders expired, the thunders
                                expired.2.Perfumes as of Eden, flow'd sweetly along,A voice, as of angels, enchantingly sung -"Columbia, Columbia, to glory arise,The queen of the world and the child of the skies."Words to "Come, ye Disconsolate," p. 29.2.Joy of the desolate, light of the straying,Hope of the penitent, fadeless and pure,Here speaks the Comforter, in mercy saying,Earth has no sorrows that heaven cannot cure.3.Here see the bread of life; see waters flowingForth from the throne of God, boundless in love;Come to the feast prepared, come, ever knowingEarth has no sorrows but heaven can remove.THE TRUMPET.12s.J WILLIAMS.Treble by Wm. Walker.1.The chariot! the chariot! its wheels roll in fire,As the Lord cometh down in the pomp of his ire!Lo! self-moving, it drives on its pathway of cloud,And the heav'ns with the burden of God-head are bow'd!2.The glory! the glory! around him are pour'dMighty hosts of the angels that wait on the Lord:And the glorified saints and the martyrs are there,And there all who the palm-wreaths of victory wear.3.The trumpet! the trumpet! the dead have all heard,Lo! the depths of the stone-cover'd charnel are stirr'd;From the sea, from the earth, from the south, from the north,All the vast generations of man are come forth!4.The judgment! the judgment! the thrones are all set;There the Lamb and the white-vested elders are met;There all flesh is at once in the sight of the Lord,And the doom of eternity hangs on his word.5.O mercy! O mercy! look down from above,Great Creator, on us, thy sad children, with love;When beneath to their darkness the wicked are driv'n.May our justified souls find a welcome in heav'n!GRAY RIDGE.8s. & 7s.SWAN.1.Bright scenes of glory strike my sense,And all my passions capture;Eternal beauties round me shine,Infusing warmest rapture, rapture, rapture!Eternal beauties round me shine,Infusing warmest rapture!2.I dive in pleasures, deep and full,In swelling waves of glory;And feel my Saviour in my soul,And groan to tell my story, story, story;And feel my Saviour in my soul,And groan to tell my story.TRAVELLING TO THE GRAVE.6,6,6,6,8,6,8,6.SWAN.1.Ye simple souls that strayFar from the paths of peace,That unfrequented roadTo life and happiness,How long will ye your folly love,And throng the downward road,and hate the wisdom from above,And mock the sons of God?And mock, &c.,And mock, &c.,And mock, &c.,2.Madness and misery,Ye count our lives beneath,And nothing great can see,As glorious in our deathAs born to suffer and to grieve,Beneath your feet we lie,And utterly contemn'd we live,And unlamented die,And unlamented die,And unlamented die,And unlamented die,3.Poor, pensive sojourners,O'erwhelm'd with grief and woes,Perplex'd with neddless fears,And pleasure's mortal foes;More irksome than a gaping tomb,Our sight ye cannot bear,Wrapt in the melancholy gloomOf fanciful despair,Of fanciful, &c.,Of fanciful, &c.,Of fanciful, &c.,INDIAN PHILOSOPHER.8,8,6.1.Awaked by Sinai's awful sound,My soul in guilt and thrall I found,And knew not where to go:O'erwhelm'd in sin, with anguish slain,The sinner must be born again,Or sink in endless wo.2.Amazed I stood, but could not tellWhich way to shun the gates of hell,For death and hell drew near;I strove indeed, but strove in vain;The sinner must be born again,Still sounded in my ear.3.When on the law I trembling fled,It pour'd its curses on my head,I no relief could find;This fearful truth increased my pain,The sinner must be born again,O'erwhelm'd my tortured mind.4.Again did Sinai's thunder roll,And guilt lay heavy on my soul,A vast unwieldy load;Alas, I read and saw it plain,The sinner must be born again,Or drink the wrath of God.5.The saints I heard with rapture tell,How Jesus conquer'd death and hell,And broke the fowler's snare;Yet when I found this truth remain,The sinner must be born again,I sunk in deep despair.6.But while I thus in anguish lay,Jesus of Nazareth passed that way,And felt his pity move;The sinner, by his justice slain,Now, by his grace, is born again,And sings redeeming love.FEW HAPPY MATCHES.P.M.CRANE.1.Say, mighty Love, and teach my song,To whom my sweetest joys belong,And who the happy pairsWhose yielding hearts and joining handsFind blessing twisted with their bands,To soften all their cares.2.Not sordid souls of earthly mould,Who, drawn by kindred charms of gold,To dull embraces move:So two rich mountains of PeruMay rush to wealthy marriage too,And make a world of love.3.Not the dull pairs whose marble formsNone of the melting passions warms,Can mingle hearts and hands:Logs of green wood that quench the coalsAre married just like Stoic souls,With osiers for their bands.4.Not minds of melancholy strain,Still silent, or that still complain,Can the dear bondage bless:As well may heavenly comforts springFrom two old lutes with ne'er a string,Or none beside the bass.5.Nor can the soft enchantments holdTwo jarring souls of angry mould,The rugged and the keen:Samson's young foxes might as wellIn bonds of cheerful wedlock dwell,With firebrands tied between.6.Nor let the cruel fetters bindA gentle to a savage mind;for love abhors the sight:Loose the fierce tiger from the deer,For native rage and native fearRise and forbid delight.7.Two kindest souls alone must meet;'Tis Friendship makes the bondage sweet,And feeds their mutual love:Bright Venus on her rolling throneIs drawn by gentlest birds alone,And Cupids yoke the doves.EXULTATION.12s. & 9s.HUMPHREYS.1.Come away to the skies, my beloved,And rejoice in the day thou wast born:On this festival day, come exulting away,And with singing to Zion return.2.We have laid up our love and our treasure above,Tho'our bodies continue below;The redeemed of the Lord, we remember his word.And with singing to Paradise go.3.With singing and praise, let us spend all our days,By our heavenly Father bestow'd;While his grace we receive, from his bounty we'll live,To the honour and glory of God.4.For thy glory we were first created, to shareBoth the nature, and kingdom divine;Now created again, that our souls may remain,Throughout time and eternity thine.5.We with thanks do approve the design of his love,Which hath joined us to Jesus' name;So united in heart, let us never more part,till we meet at the feast of the Lamb.6.There, oh there at his feet, let us all likewise meet;And be parted in body no more;We shall sing to our lyres with the heavenly choirs,And our Saviour in glory adore.7.Hallelujah we'll sing to our Father, and King,And his rapturous praises repeat;To the Lamb that was slain, hallelujah againSing all heav'n, and fall at his feet.KINGWOOD.8,8,7.HUMPHREYS.1.My days, my weeks, my months, my years,Fly rapid as the whirling spheres,Fly rapid as the whirling spheresAround the steady pole.Time, like the tide, its motion keeps,And I must launch thro' endless deeps,And I must launch thro' endless deeps,Where endless ages ...2.The grave is near the cradle see,How swift the moments pass between,How swift the moments pass between,And whisper as they fly -"Unthinking man, remember this,Tho'fond of sublunary bliss,Tho'fond of sublunary bliss,That you must groan and die."3.My soul, attend the solemn call;Thine earthly tent must shortly fall,Thine earthly tent must shortly fall,And thou must take thy flightBeyond the vast expansive blue,To sing above as angels do,To sing above as angels do,Or sink in endless night!THE MIDNIGHT CRY.7s & 6s.Counter by Swan.1.When the midnight cry began,Oh what lamentation!Lo, the Bride-groom is at hand,Who will kindly treat him?Surely all that waiting bandWill now go forth to meet him.Thousands sleeping in their sins,Neglecting their salvation.Lo, the Bride-groom is at hand,Who will kindly treat him?Surely all that waiting bandWill now go forth to meet him.2.Some indeed did wait awhileAnd shone without a rival;But they spent their seeming oilLong since the last revival.Many souls who thought they'd light,Oh, when the scene was closed,Now against the Bridgroom fight,And so they stand opposed.3.While the wise are passing by,With all their lamps prepared,Give us of your oil, they cry,If any can be spared.Others trimm'd their former snuff,Oh, is it not amazing!Those conclude they've light enough,And think their lamps are blazing.4.Foolish virgins! do you thinkOur Bridegroom's a deceiver?Then may you pass your lives away,And think to sleep for ever;But we by faith do see his face,On whom we have believed:If there's deception in the case,'Tis you that are deceived.5.And now the door is open wide,And Christians are invited,And virgins wise compass the bride,March to the place appointed.Who do you think is now a guest?Yea, listen, carnal lovers,'Tis those in wedding garments dress'd;They cease from sin for ever.GREENLAND.SWAN1.Why should I be affrighted at pestilence and war,The fiercer be the tempest, the sooner it is o'er,The sooner it is o'er, the sooner it is o'er,The fiercer be the tempest, the sooner it is o'er.With Jesus in the vessel, the billows rise in vain;They only will convey me to yon Elysian plain,To yon Elysian plain, to yon Elysian plain,They only will convey me to yon Elysian plain.2.This world is full of dangers and foes that press me hard.But Jesus he has promised that he will be my guard:Here I shall not be tempted above what I can bear,When fighting's done, escorted, his kingdom for to share.3.From him I have my orders, and while I do obey,I find his Holy Spirit illuminates my way;The way is so delightful, I wish to travel onTill I arrive at heaven to receive a starry crown.BOWER.SWAN.1.When I set out for glory,I left the world behind,Determined for a cityThat's out of sight to find,And to glory I will go,And to glory I will go,And to glory I will go,And to glory I will go.2.I left my worldly honours,I left my worldly fame,I left my young companions,And with them my good name,And to glory I will go.3.Some said I'd better tarry,They thought I was too youngFor to prepare for dying,But that was all my theme,And to glory I will go.CONFIDENCE.P.M.JACKSON.1.Arise, my soul, arise,Shake off thy guilty fears,Before the throne my surety stands,My name is written on his hands.The bleeding sacrifice,In my behalf appears.Before the throne my surety stands,My name is written on his hands.2. He ever lives above,For me to intercede,His all-redeeming love,His precious blood to plead:His blood atoned for all our race,And sprinkles now the throne of grace.3.Five bleeding wounds he bears,Received on Calvary;They pour effectual prayers,They strongly speak for me;Forgive him, O forgive, they cry,Nor let that ransom'd sinner die!4.The Father hears him pray,His dear annointed One;He cannot turn awayThe presence of his Son;His Spirit answers to the blood,And tells me I am born of God.5.My God is reconciled,His pard'ning voice I hear;He owns me for his child,I can no longer fear;With confidence I now draw nigh,And Father, Abba Father, cry.MISSIONARY HYMN.7s & 6s.Treble by Caldwell.1.From Greenland's icy mountains,From India's coral strand,Where Afric's sunny fountainsRoll down their golden sand.From many an ancient river,From many a palmy plain,They call us to deliverTheir land from error's chain.2. What tho' the spicy breezes,Blow soft o'er Ceylon's isle,Tho' ev'-ry prospect pleases,And only man is vile!In vain with lavish kindness,The gifts of God are strown;The heathen in his blindnessBows down to wood and stone.3.Shall we, whose souls are lightedBy wisdom from on high,Shall we to men benightedThe lamp of life deny?Salvation! O salvation!The joyful sound proclaim,Till earth's remotest nationHas learned Messiah's name.4.Waft, waft, ye winds, the story,And you, ye waters, roll,Till, like a sea of glory,It spreads from pole to pole;Till o'er our ransom'd nature,The Lamb for sinners slain,Redeemer, King, Creator,Returns in bliss to reign.MORALITY.10s.WHITE & DAVISSON.While beauty and youth are in their full primeAnd folly and passion affect our whole time,Oh! let not the phantom wishes engage,Let us live so in youth that we blush not in age.ARBOUR.S.M.SWAN.Grace, 'tis a charming sound,Harmonious to mine ear,Heav'n with the echo shall resound,Heav'n with the echo shall resound,And all the earth shall hear.MARIETTA.SWAN.Lo! on a narrow neck of land,'Twixt two unbounded seas I stand,'Twixt two unbounded seas I stand,Yet how insensible!A point of time,A moment's space,Removes me to yon heavenly place,Removes me to you heavenly place,Or shuts me up in hell.LANCASTER.8,8,6.SWAN.1.O glorious hope of perfect love,It lifts me up to things above,It lifts me up to things above,It bears on eagle's wings;It gives my ravish'd soul a taste,And makes me for some moments feast,And makes me for some moments feastWith Jesus, priests, and kings.2.Rejoicing now in earnest hope,I stand, and from the mountain topSee all the land below:Rivers of milk and honey rise,And all the fruits of ParadiseIn endless plenty grow.3.A land of corn, and wine, and oil,Favour'd with God's peculiar smile,With every blessing blest;There dwells the Lord our righteousness,And keeps his own in perfect peaceAnd everlasting rest.DELAWARE.7,6,7,6,7,7,7,6.SWAN.1.Rise, my soul, and stretch thy wings,Thy better portion trace;Rise from transitory things,To heaven thy native place;Sun, and moon, and stars decay;Time shall soon this earth removalRise, my soul, and haste away,To seats prepared above.Rivers to the ocean run,Nor stay in all their course;Fire, ascending, seeks the sun:-Both speed them to their source,Thus, a soul, new-born of God,Pants to view his glorious face,Upward tends to his abode,To rest in his embrace.Fly, my riches! fly, my cares!While I that coast explore;Flattering world, with all your snares,Solicit me no more.Pilgrims fix not here their home,Strangers tarry but a night;When the last bright morn shall come,We'll rise to joyful light.Cease, ye pilgrims, cease to mournPress onward to the prize;Soon the Saviour will return,Triumphant through the skies:Yet a season, and you knowHappy entrance will be given;All your sorrows left below,And earth exchanged for heaven.DEEP SPRING.C.M.DOUGLASSAs on the cross the Saviour hung,And wept, and bled, and died,He pour'd salvation on a wretchThat languish'd at his side,that languish'd at his side,…that languish'd at his side,He pour'd salvation on a wretchThat languish'd at his side.DEVIZES.C.M.TUCKER.1.Awake, my heart, arise, my tongue,Prepare a tuneful voice;In God, the life of all my joys,Aloud will I rejoice,Aloud will I rejoice.2.'Tis he adorn'd my naked soul,And made salvation mine;Upon a poor polluted wormHe makes his graces shine,He makes his graces shine.3.And lest the shadow of a spotShould on my soul be found,He took the robe the Saviour wrought,And cast it all around.4.How far the heavenly robe exceedsWhat earthly princes wear!These ornaments, how bright they shine!How white the garments are!5.The Spirit wrought my faith and love,And hope, and every grace;But Jesus spent his life to workThe robe of righteousness.6.Strangely, my soul, art thou array'dBy the great Sacred Three:In sweetest harmony of praiseLet all thy powers agree.PARTING HAND.L.M.WM. WALKER.Counter by M.L. Swan.1.My Christian friends, in bonds of love.Whose hearts in sweetest union join,Your comp'ny's sweet, your union dear,Your words delightful to my ear;Yet when I see that we must part,You draw like cords around my heart.2.Your friendship's like a drawing band,Yet we must take the parting hand.Your comp'ny's sweet, your union dear,Your words delightful to my ear;Yet when I see that we must part,You draw like cords around my heart.3.How sweet the hours have pass'd away,Since we have met to sing and pray;How loath we are to leave the placeWhere Jesus shows his smiling face!4.Oh! could I stay with friends so kind,How would it cheer my drooping mindBut duty makes me understand,That we must take the parting hand.5.And since it is God's holy willWe must be parted for a while,In sweet submission, all as one,We'll say, our Father's will be done!6.My youthful friends, in Christian ties,Who seek for mansions in the skies,Fight on! we'll gain that happy shore,Where parting will be known no more.7.How oft I've seen your flowing tears,And heard you tell your hopes and fears!Your hearts with love were seen to flame,Which makes me hope we'll meet again.8.Ye mourning souls, lift up your eyes,To glorious mansions in the skies;Oh! trust his grace - in Canaan's land,We'll no more take the parting hand!9.And now, my friends, both old and young,I hope in Christ you'll still go on;And if on earth we meet no more,Oh! may we meet on Canaan's shore.10.I hope you'll all remember me,If you on earth no more I see;An interest in your prayers I crave,That we may meet beyond the grave.11.Oh! glorious day, oh! blessed hope,My soul leaps forward at the thought!When, on that happy, happy land,We'll no more take the parting hand.12.But with our blessed, holy Lord,We'll shout and sing with one accord;And there we'll all with Jesus dwell -So, loving Christians, fare you well!DAVID'S VICTORY.P.M.1.Now your festal rites prepare!Let your triumphs rend the air;Idol gods shall reign no more,We the living Lord adore.Let heathen hearts on human helps repose,Since Israel's God has routed Israel's foes.2.Let remotest nations knowProud Goliath's overthrow;Fallen, Philisia, is thy trust,Dagon's honor laid in dust.Who fears the Lord of glory, need not fearThe brazen armour, or the golden spear.3.See the routed squadrons fly;Hark! their clamors rend the sky;Blood and carnage stain the field,See the vanquish'd nations yield.Dismay and terror fill the affrighted land,While conquering David routs the trembling band.4.Lo! upon the tented field,Royal Saul has thousands kill'd;Lo! upon the ensanguin'd plain,David has ten thousand slain.Let mighty Saul his vanquish'd thousands tell,While David's victories tenfold triumphs swell.AFRICA.C.M.SWAN.My soul forsakes her vain delight,And bids the world farewell;Base as the dirt beneath my feet,And mischievous as hell,And mischievous as hell,And mischievous as hell.ATHENS.8s & 7s.SWAN.Mercy, O thou Son of David,Thus poor blind Bartimeus pray'd,Others by they grace are saved,Now to me afford thine aid.LIBERTY.C.M.WYTHE.Lord, 'tis an infinite delightTo see thy lovely face;To dwell whole ages in thy sight,And feel thy vital rays,And feel thy vital rays.MORNING TRUMPET.B.F. WHITE.Counter by Swan.1.O when shall I see Jesus,And reign with him above?And shall hear the trumpet sound in that morning.And from the flowing fountain,Drink everlasting love?And shall hear the trumpet sound in that morning.Shout, Oh glory! for I shall mount above the skies,When I hear he trumpet sound in that morning.When shall I be deliveredFrom this vain world of sin?And shall hear the trumpet sound in that morning.And with my blessed JesusDrink endless pleasures in?And shall hear the trumpet sound in that morning.Shout, Oh glory! for I shall mount above the skies,When I hear he trumpet sound in that morning.2.But now I am a soldier,My Captain's gone before;He's given me my orders,And bids me ne'er give o'er;His promises are faithful - A righteous crown he'll give,And all his valiant soldiersEternally shall live.Shout &c.3.Through grace I feel determinedTo conquer, though I die,And then away to Jesus,On wings of love I'll fly:Farewell to sin and sorrow,I bid them both adieu!And O my friends, prove faithful,And on your way pursue.Shout &c.4.Whene'er you meet with troublesAnd trials on your way,Then cast your care on Jesus,And don't forget to pray.Gird on the gospel armourOf faith, and hope, and love,And when the combat's ended,He'll carry you above.Shout &c.5.O do not be discouraged,For Jesus is your friend;And if you lack for knowledge,He'll not refuse to lend.Neither will he upbraid you,Though often you request;He'll give you grace to conquer,And take you home to rest.Shout &c.PORTUGAL.L.M.THORLEY.1.How pleasant, how divinely fair,O Lord of hosts, thy dwellings are!With long desire my spirit faints,To meet th'assemblies of thy saints.2.My flesh would rest in thine abode,My panting heart cries out for God;My God, my King, why should I beSo far from all my joys, and thee?3.The sparrow chooses where to rest,And for her young provides her nest;But will my God to sparrows grantThat pleasure which his children want?4.Blest are the saints who sit on high,Around thy throne of majesty;Thy brightest glories shine above,And all their work is praise and love.5.Blest are the souls that find a placeWithin the temple of thy grace:There they behold thy gentler rays,And seek thy face and learn thy praise.6.Blest are the men whose hearts are setTo find the way to Zion's gate:God is their strength, and through the roadThey lean upon their helper, God.7.Cheerful they walk with growing strengthTill all shall meet in heaven at length;Till all before Thy face appear,And join in nobler worship there.WINTER.C.M.1.There is a land of pure delight,Where saints immortal reign,Infinite day excludes the night,And pleasures banish pain.2.There everlasting spring abides,And never-with'ring flow'rs;Death, like a narrow sea,This heav'nly land from ours.3.Sweet fields, beyond the swelling flood,Stand dress'd in living green;So to the Jews old Canaan stood,While Jordan roll'd between.4.But tim'rous mortals start and shrinkTo cross this narrow sea,And linger, shivering on the brink,And fear to launch away.5.Oh! could we make our doubts remove,Those gloomy doubts that rise,And see the Canaan that we love,With unbeclouded eyes;6.Could we but climb where Moses stood,And view the landscape o'er;Not Jordan's stream, nor death's cold floodShould fright us from the shore!FUNERAL THOUGHT.12s & 11s.CALDWELL.Thou art one to the grave, but we will not deplore thee,Though sorrows and darkness encompass the tomb,The Saviour has pass'd through its portals before thee,And the lamp of his love is thy guide through the gloom,and the lamp of his love is thy guide through the gloom.CANTON.7s.CALDWELL.1.Jesus, lover of my soul,Let me to thy bosom fly;While raging billows roll,While the tempest, while the tempest,While the tempest still is high.2.Hide me, O my Saviour, hide,Till the storm of life is past;Safe into the haven guide,O receive my, O receive my,O receive my soul at last!3.Other refuge have I none,Hangs my helpless soul on thee;Leave, oh! leave me not alone,Still support and comfort me!4.All my trust on thee is stayed,All my help from thee I bring;Cover my defenceless headWith the shadow of thy wing.5.Plenteous grace with thee is found,Grace to pardon all my sins;Let the healing streams abound,Make and keep me pure within.6.Thou of life the fountain art,Freely let me take of thee;Spring thou up within my heart,Rise to all eternity!THE PILGRIM'S LOT.8,8,6,8,8,6.CALDWELL.1.How happy is the pilgrim's lot,How free from anxious care and thought,From worldly hope and fear!Confined to neither court nor cell,His soul disdains on earth to dwell,His soul disdains on earth to dwell,He only sojourns here.2.The things eternal I pursue,And happiness beyond the viewOf those who basely pantFor things by nature felt and seen:Their honour, wealth, and pleasure mean,I neither have nor want.3.Nothing on earth I call my own,A stranger, to the world unknown,I all their goods despise;I trample on their whole delight,And seek a country out of sight,A country in the skies.ERIE.P.M.WOODS AND CALDWELL.1.Lord, and is thine anger gone,And art thou pacified,Infinite thy mercies are,Beneath the weight I cannot move,Oh! 'tis more than I can bear,The sense of pard'ning love.2.If I have begun once more,Thy sweet return to feel,If even now I find thy power,Present my soul to heal;Still and quiet may I lie,Nor struggle out of thine embrace;Never more resist or flyFrom thy pursuing grace.3.To the cross, thine altar, bindMe with the cords of love;Freedom let me never findFrom thee, my Lord, to move;That I never, never moreMay with my much-loved Master part,To the posts of mercy's door,Oh! nail my willing heart!OVERTON.L.M.SWAN.1.Sweet is the work, my God, my King,To praise thy name, give thanks and sing;To show thy love by morning light,And talk of all thy truth at night.2.Sweet is the day of sacred rest,No mortal cares shall seize my breast;Oh man my heart in tune be found,Like David's harp of solemn sound!3.My heart shall triumph in my Lord,And bless his works, and bless his word;Thy works of grace, how bright they shine,How deep thy counsels! how divine!4.Fools never raise their thoughts so high;Like brutes they live, like brutes they die,Like grass they flourish, till thy breathBlasts them in everlasting death.5.But I shall share a glorious part,When grace hath well refined my heart,And fresh supplies of joy are shed,Like holy oil, to cheer my head.6.Sin, my worst enemy before,Shall vex my eyes and ears no more;My inward foes shall all be slain,Nor Satan break my peace again.7.Then shall I see, and hear, and knowAll I desired or wished below;And every power find sweet employIn that eternal world of joy.HOLY MANNA.MORE.Counter by Swan.1.Brethren, we have met to worship,And adore the Lord our God;All is vain unless the SpiritOf the Holy One come down:Brethren pray, and holy mannaWill be shower'd all around.Will you pray with all your power,While we try to preach the word?All is vain unless the SpiritOf the Holy One come down:Brethren pray, and holy mannaWill be shower'd all around.2.Brethren, see poor sinners round you,Trembling on the brink of wo;Death is coming, hell is moving,-Can you bear to let them go?See our fathers, see our mothers,And our children sinking downBrethren, pray, and holy mannaWill be shower'd all around.3.Sisters, will you join and help us?Moses' sisters aided him;Will you help the trembling mourners,Who are struggling hard with sin?Tell them all about the Saviour,Tell them that he will be found;Sisters, pray, and holy mannaWill be shower'd all around.STAR IN THE EAST.P.M.JACKSON1.Hail the blest morn, when the great MediatorDown from the regions of glory descends; Brightest and best of the sons of the morning, Dawn on our darkness and lend us your aid: Shepherds, go worship the babe in the manger, Lo! For his guards the bright angels attend. Brightest and best of the sons of the morning, Dawn on our darkness and lend us your aid: Star in the East, the horizon adorning, Guide where the infant Redeemer is laid. 2. Cold on his cradle the dew-drops are shining: Low lies his bed with the beasts of the stall; Angels adore him in slumbers reclining, Maker, and Monarch, and Saviour of all. Brightest and best, &c. 3. Say, shall we yield him with costly devotion, Odours of Eden and offerings divine, Gems from the mountain and pearls from the ocean, Myrrh from the forest and gold from the mine? Brightest and best, &c. 4. Vainly we offer each ample oblation, Vainly with gold we'd his favour secure; Richer by far is the heart's adoration, Dearer to God are the prayers of the poor. Brightest and best, &c. BRUCE'S ADDRESS.Spiritualized.Counter by Swan.1.Soldiers of the cross, arise, Lo, your Captain from the skies, Holding forth the glitt'ring prize, Calls to victory. Fear not, though the battle lower, Firmly stand the trying hour, Stand the tempter's utmost pow'r, Spurn his slavery. 2. Who the cause of Christ would yield? Who would leave the battlefield? Who would cast away his shield? Let him basely go:Who for Zion's King will stand? Who will join the faithful band? Let him come with heart and hand, Let him face the foe. 3. By the mercies of our God. By Emmanuel's streaming blood, When alone for us he stood, Ne'er give up the strifeEver to the latest breath, Hark to what your Captain saith"Be thou faithful unto death; Take the crown of life." 4. By the woes which rebels prove, By the bliss of holy love, Sinners, seek the joys above; Sinners, turn and live! Here is freedom worth the name; Tyrant sin is put to shame; Grace inspires the hallow'd flame; God the crown will give. NORTH SALEM.C.M.Counter by Swan.1.My soul, come mediate the day, And think how near it stands, When thou must quit this house of clay, And fly to unknown lands, And fly to unknown lands,… When thou must quit this house of clay, And fly to unknown lands. 2. And you, mine eyes, look down and viewThe hollow gaping tomb; This gloomy prison waits for youWhene'er the summons come. 3. Oh! could we die with those that die, And place us in their stead; Then would our spirits learn to fly, And converse with the dead. 4. Then should we see the saints above, In their own glorious forms, And wonder why our souls should loveTo dwell with mortal worms5. How we should scorn these clothes of fleshThese fetters, and this load; And long for evening to undress, That we may rest with God. 6. We should almost forsake our clayBefore the summons come, And pray, and wish our souls awayTo their eternal home. HAMBURG.C.M.SWAN.1.This is the feast of heav'nly wine, And God invites to sup; The juices of the living vine, Were press'd to fill the cup,Were press'd to fill the cup, Were press'd to fill the cup, The juices of the living vine, Were press'd to fill the cup. 2. O bless the Saviour, ye that areWith royal dainties fedNot heav'n affords a costlier fare, For Jesus is the bread! 3. The vile, the lost, he calls to them, "Ye trembling souls appear!" The righteous in their own esteemHave no acceptance here. 4. "Approach ye poor, nor dare refuseThe banquet spread for you:" Dear Saviour, this is welcome news, Then I may venture too. HUMILITY.C.M.CALDWELL.As on the cross the Saviour hung,And wept, and bled, and died, He pour'd salvation on a wretchThat languish'd at his side. His crimes, with inward grief and shame, The penitent confess'd, Then turn'd his dying eyes to Christ, And thus his prayer address'd: 3. "Jesus, the Son and heir of heav'n, Thou spotless Lamb of God! I see thee bathed in sweat and tears, And welt'ring in thy blood. 4. "Yet quickly, from those scenes of wo, In triumph thou shalt rise; Burst through the gloomy shades of death, And shine above the skies! 5. "Amid the glories of that world, Dear Saviour, think on me; And in the vict'ries of thy death, Let me a sharer be." 6. His prayer the dying Jesus hears, And instantly replies, "Today, thy parting soul shall beWith me in Paradise!" SUTTON.C.M.GOFF.Save me, O God! the swelling floods,Break in upon my soul; I sink, and sorrows o'er my headLike mighty waters roll, like mighty waters roll. LIVERPOOL.C.M.Behold the man, threescore and ten, Upon his dying bed, Has run his race and got no grace, An awful sight indeed. TENNESSEE.C.M.1.Afflictions, though they seem severe, Are oft in mercy sent; They stop'd the prodigal&s career, And caused him to repent. 2.Although he no relenting felt, Till he had spent his store…His stubborn heart began to meltWhen famine pinch'd him sore. 3. "What have I gain'd by sin," he said, "But hunger, shame, and fear? My father's house abounds with bread, Whilst I am starving here. 4. I'll go and tell him all I've done, Fall down before his face; Not worthy to be call'd his son, I'll ask a servant's place." 5. He saw his son returning back, He look'd, he ran, he smiled, And threw his arms around the neckOf his rebellious child. 6. "Father, I've sinn'd, but oh forgive!" And thus the father said: "Rejoice, my house, my son's alive, For whom I mourn'd as dead. 7. "Now let the fatted calf be slain, Go spread the news around, My son was dead, but lives again, Was lost, but now is found." 8. 'Tis thus the Lord himself reveals, To call poor sinners home; More than a father's love he feels, And bids the sinner come. NORTHFIELD.C.M.INGOLS.How long, dear Saviour, Oh! how longShall this bright hour delay! Fly swift around, ye wheels of time, And bring the promised day, And bring the promised day. MILES' LANE.P.M.SHRUBSOLE.1.All hail the pow'r of Jesus' name, Let angels prostrate fall, Bring forth the royal diadem, And crown him Lord of all. 2. Crown him, ye martyrs of our God, Who from his altar call: Extol the stem of Jesse's rod, And crown him - Lord of all. 3. Hail him, ye heirs of David's line, Whom David Lord did call; The God incarnate! Man Divine! And crown him – Lord of all. 4. Ye chosen seed of Israel's race, Ye ransom'd from the fall, Hail him who saves you by his grace, And crown him – Lord of all. 5. Sinners, whose love can ne'er forgetThe wormwood and the gall, Go, spread your trophies at his feet, And crown him – Lord of all. 6. Let every kindred, every tribe, On this terrestrial ball, To him all majesty ascribe, And crown him – Lord of all. 7. Oh, that with yonder sacred throng, We at his feet may fall; We'll join the everlasting song, And crown him – Lord of all. CORONATION.C.M.O. HOLDEN.1.All hail the pow'r of Jesus' name, Let angels prostrate fall, Bring forth the royal diadem, And crown him Lord of all, Bring forth the royal diadem, And crown him Lord of all. CELEBRATION.7s & 6s.SWAN.1.To thee, O blessed Saviour, Our grateful songs we raise; O tune our hearts and voicesThy holy name to praise; 'Tis by thy sovereign mercyWe're here allowed to meet: To join with friends and teachers, Thy blessing to entreat. 2. Lord, guide and bless our teachersWho labour for our good, And may the holy ScripturesBy us be understood; Oh may our hearts be givenTo thee, our glorious King! That we may meet in heaven, Thy praises there to sing. 3. And may the precious gospelBe published all abroad, Till the benighted heathenShall know and serve the Lord; Till o'er the wide creationThe rays of truth shall shine, And nations now in darknessArise to light divine. HOLY ARMY.L.M.SWAN.There is one God, and only one;I am bound to die in his army. No rivals can his essence share; I am bound to die in his army. I am bound to live in the service of my Lord; I am bound to die in his army. He is Jehovah, He alone; I am bound to die in his army. And with the Lord none can compare; I am bound to die in his army. I am bound to live in the service of my Lord; I am bound to die in his army. CHRISTIAN SOLDIER.C.M.SWAN.1.Lord, what a wretched land is this,That yields us no supply;No cheering fruits, no wholesome trees,Nor streams of living joy!But pricking thorns, through all the ground,And mortal poisons grow;And all the rivers that are found,With dang'rous waters flow.MARTYN.7s.MARSH.Mary to the Saviour's tomb,Hasted at the early dawn,For a while she ling'ring stood,Spice she brought, and sweet perfume,But the Lord she loved had gone.Fill'd with sorrow and surprise,Trembling, while a crystal floodIssued from her weeping eyes.SEAMAN.12s.SWAN.When through the torn sail the wild tempest is streaming,When o&er the dark wave the red lightning is gleaming,Nor hope lends a ray the poor seaman to cherish,We fly to our Maker, Save, Lord,…or we perish!SUMMER.11s.SWAN.1.I would not live alway; I ask not to stayWhere storm after storm rises dark o'er the way;The few lurid mornings that dawn on us here,Are enough for life's woes - full enough for its cheer.2.I would not live alway: no - welcome the tomb,Since Jesus hath lain there, I dread not its gloom;There, sweet be my rest till he bid me arise,To hail him in triumph descending the skies.3.Who, who would live alway, away from his God,Away from yon heaven, that blissful abode,Where the rivers of pleasure flow o'er the bright plainsAnd the noontide of glory eternally reigns?4.Where the saints of all ages in harmony meet,Their Saviour and brethren transported to greet;While the anthems of parture unceasingly roll,And the smile of the Lord is the feast of the soul.RAPTURE.6,6,9.S.L. SWAN.Come away to the skies, My beloved, arise,And rejoice in the day thou wast born!On this festival day, Come exulting away,And with singing to Zion return.THE SAINT'S ADIEU.M.L. SWAN.1.What's this that steals that steals upon my frame,Is it death, is it death?That soon will quench, will quench, this vital flame,Is it death, is it death?If this be death, I soon shall beFrom every pain and sorrow freeI shall the King of Glory see;All is well, All is well.2.Weep not my friends, my friends, weep not for me,All is well, All is well.My sins are pardon'd, pardon'd, I am free,All is well, All is well.There's not a cloud that doth arise,To hide my Jesus from my eyes;I soon shall mount the upper skies;All is well, All is well.3.Tune, tune your harps, your harps, ye saints in glory,All is well, all is well.I will rehearse, rehearse the pleasing story,All is well, all is well.Bright angels are from glory come,They're round my bed, they're in my room,They wait to waft my spirit home.All is well, all is well.4.Hark, hark, my Lord, my Lord and Master calls me!All is well, all is well;I soon shall see, shall see his face in gloryAll is well, all is well,Farewell, my friends, adieu, adieu,I can no longer stay with you,My glittering crown appears in view;All is well, all is well.5.Hail, hail, all hail, all hail, ye blood-wash'd throng,Saved by grace, saved by grace,I come to join, to join your rapturous song,Saved by grace, saved by graceAll, all is peace and joy divine,And heaven and glory now are mine,Ah! hallelujah to the Lamb,All is well, all is well.CUMBERLAND.11s.1.How firm a foundation, ye saints of the Lord,Is laid for your faith in his excellent word!What more can he say than to you he has said,You who unto Jesus for refuge have fled?2.In ev'ry condition, in sickness and health,In poverty's vale, or abounding in wealth;At home and abroad, on the land, on the sea,As thy days may demand, shall thy strength ever be.3."Fear not, I am with thee, oh be not dismay'd,I, I am thy God, and will still give thee aid;I'll strengthen thee, help thee, and cause thee to stand,Upheld by my righteous, omnipotent hand.4."When through the deep waters I call thee to go,The rivers of sorrow shall not overflow;For I will be with thee, thy troubles to bless,And sanctify to thee thy deepest distress.5."When through fiery trials thy pathway shall lie,My grace all-sufficient shall be thy supply;The flames shall not hurt thee, I only designThy dross to consume, and thy gold to refine.6."E'en down to old age all my people shall prove,My sovereign, eternal, unchangeable love;And when hoary hairs shall their temples adorn,Like lambs they shall still in my bosom be borne.7."The soul that on Jesus doth lean for repose,I will not, I will not desert to his foes;That soul, though all hell should endeavor to shake,I'll never - no, never - no, never forsake."TRANQUILLITY.L.M.CALDWELL.1.Jesus, my all to heav'n is gone,He whom I fix my hopes upon;His track I see, and I'll pursueThe narrow way till him I view.My grief and burden long have been,That I was not released from sin.2.This is the way I long have sought,And mourn'd because I found it not;3.The more I strove against its power,I felt its weight and guilt the more;At length I heard my Saviour say,"Come hither, soul, I am the way."4.Now I will tell to sinners round,What a dear Saviour I have found;I'll point to his redeeming blood,And say, "Behold the way to God!"JALINDA.P.M.CALDWELL.1.Burst, ye em'rald gates, and bringTo my raptured vision,All th'ecstatic joys that springRound the bright Elysian.Lo! we lift our longing eyes,Break, ye intervening skies!Sun of Righteousness arise!Ope the gates of Paradise.2.Floods of everlasting lightFreely flash before him;Myriads with supreme delightInstantly adore him.Trumps angelic sound his fame,Lutes of lucid gold proclaimAll the music of his name,Heaven shall echo with the theme.3.Four and twenty elders rise,From their princely station;Shout his glorious victories,Sing the great salvation:Cast their crowns before his throne,Cry in reverential tone,Glory be to God alone,Holy! holy! holy One!4.Hark! the thrilling symphonies,Seem, methinks, to seize us;Join we to the holy lays,Jesus! Jesus! Jesus!Sweetest sound in seraph's song,Sweetest note on mortal's tongueSweetest carol ever sung,Jesus! Jesus! flows along.IANTHE.CALDWELL.'Tis religion that can giveSweetest pleasures while we live;After death its joys will beLasting as eternity.ORTONVILLE.C.M.Oh! for a closer walk with God,A calm and heav'nly frame;A light to shine upon the roadThat leads me to the Lamb,That leads me to the Lamb.DUBLIN.C.M.Lord, what is man, poor feeble man?Born of the earth at first;His life a shadow, light and vain,Still hast'ning to the dust.WATCHMAN.C.M.Counter by Swan.A charge to keep I have,A God to glorify;A never dying soul to save,And fit it for the sky.ANTIOCH.C.M.Joy to the world, the Lord is come,Let earth receive her King;Let ev'ry heart prepare him room,And heav'n and nature sing,And heav'n, &c.,And heav'n, And heav'n and nature sing.MARSTON.6s.COLLIER.1.O gracious Lord of all,Thy little children see,And mercifully callOur wand'ring hearts to thee.2.Oh let thy pow'rful graceOur souls' attention draw,And on our mem'ries traceThy never-changing law.BROOMFIELD.S.M.SWAN.Grace! 'tis a charming sound,Harmonious to mine ear;Heav'n with the echo shall resound,And all the earth shall hear.LISCHER.H.M.1.Welcome delightful morn,Thou day of sacred rest,I hail thy kind return;Lord, make these moments blest;From the low train of mortal toys,I soar to reach immortal joys,I soar to reach immortal joys.2.Now may the king descend,And fill his throne of grace!Thy sceptre, Lord, extend,While saints address thy face:Let sinners feel thy quick'ning word,And learn to know and fear the Lord.3.Descend, celestial Dove,With all thy quick'ning powers;Disclose a Saviour's love,And bless these sacred hours:Then shall my soul new life obtain,Nor Sabbaths be indulged in vain.TODAY.6s & 4s.1.Today the Saviour calls,Ye wand'rers come!O ye benighted souls,Why longer roam?2.Today the Saviour calls,Oh hear him now!Within these sacred walls,To Jesus bow.3.Today the Saviour calls,For refuge fly!The storm of Justice falls,And death is night.PERU.C.M.SWAN.1.Salvation! Oh the joyful sound!'Tis pleasure to our ears;A sovereign balm for every wound,A cordial for our fears.2.Buried in sorrow and in sin,At hell's dark door we lay,But we arise by grace divine,To see a heav'nly day.3.Salvation! let the echo fly,The spacious earth around,While all the armies of the skyConspire to raise the sound.INDIAN'S FAREWELL.7s.Counter by Swan.1.When shall we all meet again?When shall we all meet again?Oft shall glowing hope expire,Oft shall wearied love retire,Oft shall death and sorrow reign,Ere we all shall meet again.2.Though in distant lands we sigh,Parch'd beneath the hostile sky;Though the deep between us rolls,Friendship shall unite our souls;And in fancy's wide domain,There shall we all meet again.3.When our burnish'd locks are gray,Thinn'd by many a toil-spent day,When around the youthful pineMoss shall creep the ivy twine;Long may the loved bow'r remain,Ere we all shall meet again.4.When the dreams of life are fled,When its wasted lamps are dead;When in cold oblivion's shade,Beauty, wealth and fame are laid,Where immortal spirits reign,There may we all meet again.SPRING PLACE.L.P.M. of 6 lines 8s.SWAN.1.I'll praise my Maker with my breath;And when my voice is lost in death,Praise shall employ my nobler pow'rs;My days of praise shall ne'er be pastWhile life and thought and being last,Or immortality endures.2.Why should I make a man my trust?Princes must dies and turn to dust;Vain is the help of flesh and blood:Their breath departs, their pomp and powerAnd thoughts all vanish in an hour,Nor can they make their promise good.3.Happy the man whose hopes relyOn Israel's God: he made the sky,And earth and seas, with all their train:His truth for ever stands secure;He saves th' opprest, he feeds the poor,And none shall find his promise vain.4.The Lord hath eyes to give the blind;The Lord supports the sinking mind;He sends the labouring conscience peace:He helps the stranger in distress,The widow and the fatherless,And grants the prisoner sweet release.THE PEARL.7,6,7,6,8,8,6,6.SWAN.1.The pearl that worldliness covetIs not the pearl for me;Its beauty fades as quicklyAs sunshine on the sea.But there's a pearl of Paradise-'Tis called the pearl of greatest price;Though few its value see,Oh that's the pearl for me.2.The crown that decks the monarchIs not the crown for me;It dazzles but a moment,Its brightness soon will flee.But there's a crown prepared above,For all who walk in humble love;For ever bright 't will be,Oh that's the crown for me.3.The road that many travelIs not the road for me;It leads to death and sorrow,In it I would not be.But there's a road that leads to God,'Tis mark'd by Christ's most precious blood,The passage here is free,Oh that's the road for me.4.The hope that sinners cherishIs not the hope for me;Most surely will they perishUnless from sin made free.But there's a hope which rests in God,And leads the soul to keep his word,And sinful pleasures flee;Oh that's the hope for me.EXCHANGE.C.M.SWAN.1.Almighty God! eternal Lord!Thy gracious power make known;Touch, by the virtue of thy word,And melt the heart of stone.2.Speak with a voice that wakes the dead,And bid the sleeper rise;And let his guilty conscience dreadThe death that never dies.3.Let us receive the word we hear,Each in an honest heart;Lay up the precious treasure there,And never with it part.4.Now let our darkness comprehendThe light that shines so clear;Now the revealing Spirit send,And give us ears to hear.CARDIPHONIA.Music by SWAN.Words by Thos. Mackellar.1.Far distant from my Father's houseI would no longer stay;But gird my soul and hasten on,And sing upon the way!And sing! and sing! And sing upon my way!2.The skies are dark, the thunders roll,And lightnings round me play;Let me but feel my Saviour near,I'll sing upon the way!And sing! &c.3.The night is long and drear, I cry;Oh when will come the day?I see the morning star arise,And sing upon the way!4.When care and sickness bow my frame,And all my powers decay,I'll ask Him for His promised grace,And sing upon the way!5.He'll not forsake me when I'm old,And weak, and blind, and gray;I'll lean upon his faithfulness,And sing upon the way!6.When grace shall bear me home to God-Disrobed of mortal clay,I'll enter in the pearly gates,And sing upon the way!And sing! and sing!An everlasting day!MEDITATION.C.M.D.1.Thy gracious presence, O my God,My ev'ry wish contains;With this beneath affliction's loadMy heart no more complains.This can my ev'ry care control,Gild each dark scene with lightThis is the sunshine of the soul,Without it, all is night.2.Oh! happy scenes of pure delight,Where thy full beams impartUnclouded beauty to the sight,And rapture to the heart,Her part in those fair realms of bliss,My spirit longs to know;My wishes terminate in this,Nor can they rest below.HASTEN, SINNER, TO BE WISE.1.Hasten, sinner, to be wise;Stay not, stay not for the morrow's sun;Wisdom if you still despise,Harder is it to be won.2.Hasten mercy to implore;Stay not, stay not for the morrow's sun,Lest thy season should be o'er,Ere this evening's course be run.3.Hasten, sinner, to return;Stay not, stay not for the morrow's sun,Lest thy lamp should cease to burn,Ere salvation's work is done.4.Hasten, sinner, to be bless'd;Stay not, stay not for the morrow's sun,Lest perdition thee arrest,Ere the morrow is begun.5.Lord, do thou the sinner turn;Rouse him, rouse him from his senseless state;Let him not thy counsel spurn,And lament his choice too late.PART II. CONSISTING PRINCIPALLY OF PIECES USED IN SCHOOLS AND
                        SOCIETIES.JOYFUL.C.M.Counter by Swan.Am I a soldier of the cross,A follower of the Lamb?And shall I fear to own his cause,Or blush to speak his name?Must I be carried to the skiesOn flowery beds of ease,Whilst othersJOYFUL.Concluded.fought to win the prize,And sail'd thro' bloody seas?Oh! that will be joyful, joyful, joyful,Oh! that will be joyful, to meet to part no more,To meet to part no more,On Canaan's happy shore,We all shall meet at Jesus' feet,With those who've gone before.WONDROUS LOVE.12,9,6,6,12,9.CHRISTOPHER.What wondrous love is this, oh! my soul! oh! my soul!What wondrous love is this, oh! my soul!What wondrous love is this!That caused the Lord of bliss,To bear the dreadful curse for my soul, for my soul,To bear the dreadful curse for my soul.SALUTATION.7,6,8,7,7,6,7,6.Good morning, brother pilgrim,What! bound for Canaan's coast?March you towards Jerusalem,To join the heav'nly host?Pray wherefore are you smiling,While tears run down your face?We soon shall cease from toiling,And reach that heav'nly place,And reach that heav'nly place,We soon shall cease from toiling,And reach that heav'nly place.OLIPHANT.8,7,4.1.Guide me, O though great Jehovah,Pilgrim through this barren land;I am weak, but thou art mighty,Hold me with thy powerful hand;Bread of heaven, Bread of heavenFeed me till I want no more,Feed me till I want no more.2.When I tread the verge of Jordan,Bid my anxious fears subside;Bear me through the swelling current;Land me safe on Canaan's side:Songs of praises,I will ever give to thee.3.Open now the crystal fountain,When the healing streams do flow;Let the fiery, cloudy pillarLead me all my journey through:Strong Deliv'rer,Be thou still my strength and shield.EDOM.C.M.With songs...and honours sounding loud,Address...the Lord on high...Over the heav'ns he spreads his clouds,And waters veil the sky,And waters veil the sky,He sends his show'rs of blessing down,To cheer the plains below;...EDOM.Concluded.He makes the grass the mountains crown,He makes the grass the mountains crown,And corn in valleys grow,And corn in valleys grow.MEXICO.7s & 6s.SWAN.How lost was my condition,Till Jesus made me whole,There is but one physicianCan cure my sin-sick soul!On every part it seizes,But rages most within.The worst of all diseasesIs light compared with sin;FRANCE.7s & 6s.SWAN.Good morning, brother pilgrim,What! bound for Canaan's coast?March you towards JerusalemTo join the heav'nly host.Pray wherefore are you smilingWhile tears run down your face?We soon shall cease from toiling,And reach that heav'nly place.And reach that heav'nly place,And...reach that heav'nly place;We soon shall cease from toiling,And reach that heav'nlyFRANCE.Concluded.place;Pray, wherefore are you smiling,While tears run down your face?We soon shall cease from toiling,And reach that heav'nly place.OLNEY.S.M.The spirit in our heartsIs whisp'ring, "Sinner, come,"The bride, the church of Christ, proclaimsTo all his children "Come."EGYPT.8s.SWAN.How happy the people that dwellSecure in the city above!No pain the inhabitants feel,No sickness or sorrow shall prove.Physician of souls, unto meForgiveness and holiness give;And then from the body set free,And then to the city receive.PLEYEL'S HYMN, (Second.)C.M.While thee I seek, protecting Power,Be my vain wishes still'd;And may this consecrated hourWith better hopes be fill'd!Thy love the power of thought bestow'd,To thee my thoughts would soar,Thy mercy o'er my life has flow'd,That mercy I adore.MILFORD.C.M.STEPHENSON.If angels sung a Saviour's birth,If angels &c.On that auspicious morn,We well may imitate their mirth,Now he again is born,Now he again is born,Now he &c.SHARON.P.M.Counter by Swan.How pleasant 'tis to seeKindred and friends agree,Each in his proper station move,Each in his proper station move,And each fulfil his part,Wih sympathizing heart,In all the cares of life,In all the cares of life and love.SOLITUDE IN THE GROVE.C.M.Oh were I like a feather'd dove,And innocence had wings,I'd fly and make a long remove,From all these restless things.Let me to some wild desert go,And find a peaceful home,Where storms of malice never blowAnd sorrows never come.EXHORTATION.L.M.Now in the heat of youthful blood,Remember your Creator, God;Behold the months come hast'ning onWhen you shall say, My joys are gone,When you shall say, My joys are gone.CUBA.10s & 11s.SWAN.1.Ye servants of God, your Master proclaim,And publish abroad his wonderful name,The name of all victorious of Jesus extol,His kingdom is glorious, He rules over all.2.God ruleth on high, Almighty to save;And still he is nigh, his presence we have.The great congregation his triumphs shall sing,Ascribing salvation to Jesus our King.3.Salvation to God, who sits on the throne,Let all cry aloud, and honour the Son:The praises of Jesus, the angels proclaim,Fall down on their faces, and worship the Lamb.4.Then let us adore and give Him his right,All glory, and power, and wisdom, and might,All honour and blessing, with angels above,And thanks never ceasing, for infinite love.CREATION.S.M.SHUMWAY.Let every creature join,To praise th'eternal God;Ye heavenly hosts, the song begin,And sound his name, And sound his name abroad.The sun with golden beams,And moon with paler rays, And moon &c.Ye starry lights, ye twinkling flames,Shine to your Maker's praise, Shine to your Maker's praise.MONTGOMERY.C.M.MORE.Early, my God, without delay,I haste to seek thy face;My thirsty spirit faints away,Without thy cheering grace.So pilgrims on the scorching sand,Beneath the burning sky,Long for a cooling streamMONTGOMERY.(Concluded.)Long for a cooling stream at hand,Long for a cooling stream at hand,And they must drink or die.OCEAN.C.M.SWAN.Thy works of glory, mighty Lord,That rul'st the boist'rous sea;The sons of courage shall record,OCEAN.Concluded.Who tempt the dangerous way.At thy command the winds arise,And swell the tow'ring waves;The men, astonish'd, mount the skies,And sink in gaping graves.BALLSTOWN.L.M.Great God, attend while Zion singsThe joy that from thy presence springs;To spend one day thee on earth,Exceeds a thousand days of mirth,To spend, &c.,Exceeds, &c.DAVID'S LAMENTATION.BILLINGS.David the king was grieved and moved,He went to his chamber, his chamber, and wept;And as he went he wept, and said,O my son! O my son!Would to God I had died,Would &c., Would, &c.,For thee, O Absalom, my son, my son!NEW TOPIA.P.M.MUNDAY.Young people, all attention give,And hear what I do say;I want your souls in Christ to live,In everlasting day;Remember, you are hast'ning onTo death's dark gloomy shade;Your joys on earth will soon be gone,Your flesh in dust be laid,Your joys on earth will soon be gone,Your flesh in dust be laid.MARION.S.M.SWAN.1.The hill of Zion yieldsA thousand sacred sweets,Before we reach the heav'nly fields,Or walk the golden streets.EUSEBIA.7s & 6s.SWAN.1.From Greenland's icy mountains,From India's coral strand,Where Afric's sunny fountainsRoll down their golden sand;From many an ancient river,From many a palmy plain,EUSEBIA.Concluded.They call me to deliverTheir land from error's chain.2.What though the spicy breezesBlow soft o'er Ceylon's isle-In vain with lavish kindnessThe gifts of God are strown;Tho' ev'ry prospect pleases,And only man is vile?The heathen in his blindnessBows down to wood and stone,Bows down to wood and stone.3.Shall we, whose souls are lightedWith wisdom from on high-Shall we, to men benighted,The lamp of life deny?Salvation! oh, salvation!The joyful sound proclaim,Till earth's remotest nationHas learn'd Messiah's name.4.Waft, waft, ye winds, his story,And you, ye waters, roll,Till, like a sea of glory,It spreads from pole to pole;Till o'er our ransom'd natureThe Lamb for sinners slain,Redeemer, King, Creator,In bliss returns to reign.MINSTREL.8s.SWAN.What sorrowful sounds do I hear,Move slowly along in the gale,How solemn they fall on my ear,As softly they pass thro' the vale,As softly they pass thro' the vale.Sweet Corydon's notes are all o'er,Now lonely he sleeps in theMINSTREL.Concluded.clay,His cheeks bloom with roses no more,Since death call'd his spirit away,Since death call'd his spirit away,Since death call'd his spirit away.His cheeks bloom with roses no more,Since death call'd his spirit away.LENA.8s & 7s.Counter by Swan.See the Lord of glory dying,See him gasping, Hear him crying,See his burden'd bosom heave:Look, ye sinners,Ye that hung him,Look how deep your sins have stung him;Dying sinners, look and live.AMSTERDAM.7s & 6s.Rise, my soul, and stretch thy wings,Thy better portion trace;Rise from all terrestrial things,To heav'n, thy native place.Sun and moon, and stars decay;Time shall soon this earth remove.Rise, my soul, and haste away,To seats prepared above.SPRING.P.M.Counter by Swan.1.The scatter'd clouds are fled at last,The rain is o'er, the winter's past;The lovely vernal flowers appear,The warbling choirs enchant our ear:SPRING.Concluded.Now, with sweetly pensive moan,Coos the turtle dove alone,Coos, &c.Coos the turtle dove alone,Coos the turtle dove alone.2.The voice of my beloved sounds,While o'er the mountain top he bounds;He flies exulting o'er the hills,And all my soul with transport fills.Rise, my soul, and come away,Gently doth he chide my stay.URMUND.8s & 4s.1.Hark how the gospel trumpet sounds!Thro' all the world its echo bounds,And Jesus, by redeeming blood,Is bringing sinners back to God,And guides them safely by his word,To endless day.2.Hail! all-virtuous, conquering Lord!Be thou by all thy works adored,Who undertook, for sinful man,And brought salvation through thy name,That we with thee may ever reignIn endless day.3.Fight on, ye conquering souls, fight on,And when the conquest you have won,Then palms of victory you shall bear,And in his kingdom have a share,And crowns of glory ever wearIn endless day.MIDDLETOWN.7s.Hail the day that saw him rise,Ravish'd from our wishful eyes;Christ, a-while to mortals given,Re-ascends his native heaven;There the pompous triumph waits,Lift your heads, eternal gates,Wide unfold the radiant scene,Take the King of glory in.THE RIVULET.SWAN.Behold! the Judge descends!Behold! Tempest and fire attend him down he sky!Heav'n, earth, and hell draw near,Let all things come,To hear his justice, and the sinner's doom.But gather first, my saints, ButRIVULET.Concluded.gather first my saints, the Judge commands,Bring them, ye angels,Bring them, ye angels, from their distant lands.HUNTINGDON.L.M.Lord, what a thoughtless wretch was I,To mourn, and murmur, and repine;To see the wicked placed on high,In pride and robesHUNTINGDON.Concluded.of honour shine.But, oh! their end, their dreadful end!Thy sanctuary taught me so;But - taught me so;On slippery rocks I see them stand,And fiery billows roll below.JORDAN'S SHORE.C.M.J.T. WHITECounter by Swan.On Jordan's stormy banks I stand,And cast a wishful eye,On the other side of Jordan,Hallelujah!To Canaan's fair and happy landWhere my possessions lie,On the other side of Jordan,Hallelujah!On the other side of Jordan,Hallelujah!On the other side of Jordan,Hallelujah!IOWA.SWAN.Hasten, O sinner, to be wise,And stay not for tomorrow's sun;The longer wisdom you despise,The harder is she to be won,The harder is she to be won.INVITATION.L.M.KIMBOL.Hark! the Redeemer, from on high,Sweetly invites his fav'ritesINVITATION.Concluded.nigh,From caves of darkness and of doubt,He gently speaks and calls us out.Come, my beloved, haste away,Cut short the hours of thy delay;Fly like a youthful hart or roe,Over the hills where spices grow.WHITESTOWN.L.M.WARD.Remember, Lord, our mortal state,How frail our lives, how short the date!Where is the man that draws his breath,Safe from disease, secure from death?Lord, while we see whole nations die,OurWHITESTOWN.Concluded.flesh and strength repine, and cry,Must death for ever rage and reign?Or hast thou made mankind in vain?BOYLSTON.S.M.L. MASON.Our days are as the grass,Or like the morning flow'r;If one sharp blast sweep o'er the field,It withers in an hour.ORNAN.8s & 7s.1.Yes, my native land, I love thee,All thy scenes, I love them well;Friends, connections, happy country,Can I bid you all farewell?Can I leave you, can I leave you,Far in heathen lands to dwell?Can I leave you, can I leave you,Far in heathen lands to dwell?2.Home, thy joys are passing lovely,Joys no stranger's heart can tell;Happy home indeed I love thee;Can I, can I say farewell?Can I leave thee, can I leave thee,Far in heathen lands to dwell?Can I leave thee, can I leave thee,Far in heathen lands to dwell?LONG AGO.10,4,4,10,4,4,10,10,10,4,3/M.L. SWAN.1.Where are the friends, that to me were so dear,Long, long ago,Long, long ago?Friends that I loved, in the grave are laid low-Where are the hopes, that my heart used to cheer,Long, long ago,Long, long ago?Hopes that I cherish'd, are fled from me now.I have been taught there's no joys here below,Long, long ago,Long ago.2.Jesus, the Saviour, has died on the cross,Long, long ago - long, long ago;Told me believe in his name, or be lost,Long, long ago - long, long, ago;Had I repented and turned to the Lord,Trusted his grace and believed in his word,Pleasures for me had been placed on record,Long, long ago - long ago.DOWN DERRY.(Round, in three parts.)Arranged for exercise and recreation in Schools or Singing Societies.SWAN.A boat about to cross the ferry,And we'll go over to be merry;And while we go sing hey down derry.THE CHURCH BELL.(Round, in three parts.)The bell doth toll, its echoes roll,I know the sound full well.Bomb, bomb, bim, bomb bell.I love its ringing, for it calls to singing,With its bim, bim, bim, bomb bell.MORNING BELL.(Round, in two parts.)Morning bells I love to hear,Merrily ringing loud and clear.WELCOME.(Round, in two parts.)Welcome, welcome every guest,Welcome to our music feast;Music is our only cheer,Fills both heart and ravish'd ear.SABBATH.(Round, in three parts.)Safely, through another week,God has brought us on our way;Let us now a blessing seek,Waiting in his courst today;Day of all the week the best,Emblem of eternal rest.PART III. CONTAINING ODES AND ANTHEMS.CHRISTIAN SONG.Alto by Swan.Mine eyes are now closing to rest,My body must soon be removed,And, mould'ring, lie buried in dust,No more to be envied or loved,No more to be envied or loved.CHRISTIAN SONG.Concluded.Oh! what is this drawing my breath,And stealing my senses away?O tell me, O tell me, my soul, is it deathReleasing me kindly from clay?Now, mounting, my soul shall descryThe regions of pleasure and love;My spirit triumphant shall fly,And dwell with my Saviour above.SOLOMON'S SONG.SWANBehold, thou art fair, my love;Behold, thou art fair;thou hast dove's eyes within thy locks:thy hair is as a flock of goats,that appear from mount Gilead.Thy teeth are like a flock of sheep that are even shorn,which came up from the washing; whereof every one bear twins,SOLOMON'S SONG.Continued.and none is barren among them.Thy lips are like a thread of scarlet, and thy speech is comely;thy temples are like a piece of a pomegranate within thy locks.Thy neck is like the tower of David builded for an armory, where-SOLOMON'S SONG.Continued.on there hang a thousand bucklers, all shields of mighty men.Thy two breasts are like two young roes that are twins, which feed
                                among the lilies.Until the day break, and the shadows flee away,I will get me to the mountain of myrrh, and to the hill of
                                frankincense.SOLOMON'S SONG.Continued.Thou art all fair, my love; there is no spot in thee.Come with me from Lebanon, my spouse, with me from Lebanon:look from the top of Amana, from the top of Shenir and Hermon,from the lions' dens, from the mountains of the leopards.SOLOMON'S SONG.Continued.Thou hast ravish'd my heart, my sister, my spouse;thou hast ravish'd my heart with one of thine eyes, with one chain of
                                thy neck.How fair is thy love,How fair is thy love, my sister, my spouse!how much better is thy love than wine! and the smell of thine
                                ointments than all spices!SOLOMON'S SONG.Continued.Thy lips, O my spouse, drop as the honeycomb: honey and milk are
                                under thy tongue;and the smell of thy garments is like the smell of Lebanon.A garden enclosed is my sister, my spouse; a spring shut up, a
                                fountain seal'd.Thy plants are an orchard of pomegranates, with pleasant fruits;SOLOMON'S SONG.Continued.camphire, with spikenard, spikenard and saffron;calamus and cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense;myrrh and aloes, with all the chief spices:A fountain of gardens, a well of living waters, and streams from
                                Lebanon.SOLOMON'S SONG.Concluded.Awake, awake, O north wind; and come, thou south, and come thou
                                south;awake, awake, O north wind; and come, thou south;blow upon my garden, that the spices thereof may flow out.Let my beloved come into his garden,And eat his pleasant fruits.EASTER ANTHEM.Hallelujah,The Lord is risen indeed,Hallelujah,Now is Christ risen from the dead,And become the first-fruits of them that slept.EASTER ANTHEM.Continued.Hallelujah, Hallelujah, Hallelujah.And did he rise? Did he rise?Hear it, ye nations! hear it,O ye dead!EASTER ANTHEM.Continued.He rose, he rose, he burst the bars of death,He burst the bars of death, he burst the bars of death,And triumph'd o'er the grave!Then, Then, then I rose, then I rose,Then I rose, then I rose,Then first humanity tri-EASTER ANTHEM.Concluded.umphant pass'd the crystal ports of light,And seized eternal youth.Man, all immortal, hail!Hail, Heaven! all lavish of strange gifts to man,Thine's all the glory, man's boundless bliss.ROSE OF SHARON.BILLINGS.I am the rose of Sharon, and the lily of the valleys.As the lily among the thorns, so is my love among the daughters.ROSE OF SHARON.Continued.As the apple tree, the apple tree among the trees of the wood,So is my beloved among the sons.I sat down under his shadow with great delight,ROSE OF SHARON.Continued.And his fruit, And his fruit was sweet to my taste.He brought me to the banqueting house, his banner over me was
                                love.He brought me to the banqueting house, His banner over me was
                                love.ROSE OF SHARON.Continued.Comfort me with apples, for I am sick,For I am sick of love.I charge you, O ye daughters of Jerusalem,By the roes, and by the hinds of the field,ROSE OF SHARON.Continued.that ye stir not up, that ye stir not up,nor awake, awake, awake, awake my love, till he please.The voice of my beloved!Behold, he cometh leaping upon the mountains,ROSE OF SHARON.Continued.skipping, skipping, leaping upon the mountains,skipping upon the hills.My beloved spake,Rise up, my love, my fair one, and come away.For lo, the winter isROSE OF SHARON.Concluded.past, the rain is over and gone.For lo, the winter is past,the rain is over and gone.WESTERN MOUNT PLEASANT.C.M.There is a house not made with hands,Eternal and on high,And here my spirit waiting standsTill God shall bid it fly.And here my spirit waiting standsTill God shall bid it fly…And here my spiritWESTERN MOUNT PLEASANT.Concluded.waiting standsTill God shall bid it fly, fly, fly, fly,Till God shall bid it fly.ODE ON SCIENCE.The morning sun shines from the east,And spreads his glories to the west;All nation with his beams are blest,Where'er the radiant light appears:So science spreads her lucid rayO'er lands whichODE ON SCIENCE.Continued.long in darkness lay;She visits fair Columbia,And sets her sons among the stars.Fair Freedom, her attendant, waitsTo bless the portals of her gates,To crown the young and rising stateWithODE ON SCIENCE.Concluded.laurels of immortal date.The British yoke, the Gallic chainWas urged upon our necks in vain:All haughty tyrants we disdain,And shout, Long live America!CLAREMONT.Vital spark of heav'nly flame,Quit, oh quit this mortal frame!Trembling, hoping, ling-'ring, flying, flying, flying,Oh, the pain, the bliss of dying!And let me languish into life,And let me languish into life.CLAREMONT.Continued.Hark! they whisper! angels say,Sister spirit, come away.Hark! Hark! Sister spirit, come away,Sister sprit, come away.What is this absorbs me quite,Steals my senses, shuts my sight,Drowns my spirit, drawsCLAREMONT.Continued.my breath,Tell me, my soul, can this be death?Tell me, my soul, can this be death?Tell me, my soul, can this be death?Mine ears with sounds seraphic ring,Mine ears with sounds seraphicCLAREMONT.Continued.ring,Mine ears with sounds seraphic ring.Lend, lend your wings,I mount, I fly, I mount, I fly,O grave! where is thy victory, thy victory?O grave! where is thy victory, thy victory?O death! where is thy sting? Lend,CLAREMONT.Concluded.lend your wings,I mount, I fly, I mount, I fly,I mount, I fly, I fly,O grave! where is thy victory?O death! where is thy sting?I mount, I fly, I mount, I fly,O grave! where is thy victory?O death! where is thy sting?O PRAISE GOD IN HIS HOLINESS.O praise God in his holiness; praise him in the firmament,in the firmament of his pow'r.Praise him in his noble acts, praise him in his noble acts;praise him according to his excellent greatness.O PRAISE GOD IN HIS HOLINESS.Continued.praise him in the sound of the trumpet, in the sound of the
                                trumpet;praise him upon the lute, upon the lute and harp;Praise him in the cymbals, in the cymbals and dances;praise him on strings, onO PRAISE GOD IN HIS HOLINESS.Concluded.strings and pipes;Let ev'ry thing that hath breath, let ev'ry thing that hath
                                breath,that hath breath praise the Lord, that hat breath praise the
                                Lord.Praise the Lord, Praise the Lord.FAREWELL ANTHEM.My friends, I am going a long and tedious journey,Never to return.I am going a long and tedious journey,Never to return.FAREWELL ANTHEM.Continued.Fare you well, my friends,Fare you well, my friends,Fare you well,FAREWELL ANTHEM.Continued.And God grant we may meet together in that world above,Where trouble shall cease and harmony shall abound.Hark! hark! my dear friends, for death hath called me,And I must go and lie down in theFAREWELL ANTHEM.Concluded.cold and silent grave.There the mourners cease from mourning,And the pris'ner is set free; Where the rich and the poor are both alike.Fare you well, Fare you well, Fare you well,Fare you well, Fare you well, my friends.ALPHABETICAL INDEX.Albion......................................12America....................................28Aurora......................................40Albany......................................68Anticipation..............................75Arbour.....................................90Africa.......................................97Athens......................................97Antioch...................................130Amsterdam.............................169Bradley....................................38Benevento................................50Brooklyn..................................70Bequest....................................71Bower......................................86Bruce's Address.....................109Broomfield..............................131Ballstown................................161Boylston..................................181Consolation..............................21Choral Song.............................27Convoy....................................29Come ye Disconsolate..............29China.......................................39Concord..................................46Christian Contemplation............48Clinton.....................................66Christmas.................................69Crucifixion................................73Confidence...............................87Canton...................................103Coronation.............................117Celebration.............................118Christian Soldier.....................120Cumberland............................125Cardiphonia............................138Cuba......................................156Creation..................................157Detroit......................................22Davisson's Retiremen................74Delaware..................................92Deep Spring.............................93Devizes....................................94David's Victory........................96Dublin.....................................129David's Lamentation...............162Erin..........................................26Ebenezer..................................33Evening Shade..........................52Emerald Gates..........................58Exultation..................................82Erie.........................................105Exchange................................137Edom.....................................146Egypt.....................................150Exhortation.............................155Eusebia..................................164Fairfield.....................................20Farewell....................................32Florida......................................62Few Happy Matches.................81Funeral Thought......................102France....................................108Greenfields...............................16Gray Ridge...............................78Greenland.................................85Halston.....................................33Hopewell..................................37Home.......................................54Home, sweet Home..................55Heavenly Armour......................56Holy Manna............................107Hamburg.................................111Humility..................................112Holy Army..............................119Hasten, Sinner, to be wise.......140Huntingdon.............................175Idumea......................................44Importunity................................60I have my Trials.........................64Indian Philosopher.....................80Iantha......................................128Indian's Farewell.....................134Iowa.......................................178Invitation.................................178Joyful......................................141Jordan's Shore........................177Kedron.....................................45Kingwood.................................83Lenox.......................................42Lone Pilgrim..............................49Leander....................................61Lorinda.....................................75Lancaster..................................91Liberty......................................98Liverpool................................113Lischer...................................132Lena.......................................168Long Ago...............................183Mear.............................. ........14Middlebrook..................... ......36Mount Olivet..................... ......51Messiah...................................72Midnight Cry................... ........84Missionary Hymn.....................88Morality...................................89Marietta...................................90Morning Trumpet.....................99Miles' Lane............................116Martyn...................................150Malinda..................................127Marston.................................131Meditation..............................139Mexico...................................147Milford...................................152Montgomery...........................158Marion...................................164Minstrel..................................166Middletown............................173Newport...................................17Ninety-Third.............................25Native Country.........................31New Salem...............................34Ninety-Fifth..............................35New Durham............................63North Salem...........................110Northfield...............................115New Topia.............................163Old Hundred............................11Olive........................................31Overton.................................105Ortonville...............................128Oliphant.................................145Olney.....................................149Ocean....................................159Ornan.....................................182Prospect...................................15Pleasant Hill..............................43Protection.................................57Paradise...................................68Persia.......................................76Parting Hand.............................95Portugal..................................100Peru........................................133Pleyel's Hymn, 2d...................151Reflection.................................13Redeeming Love.......................53Rapture...................................123Rounds...................................184Salem.......................................22Salvation...................................24Sion's Security.........................30St. Martin's............................30Sweet Rivers.............................41Soda.........................................67Star in the East........................108Sutton.....................................113Seaman..................................121Summer..................................122Spring Place............................135Salutation................................144Sharon....................................153Solitude in the Grove...............154Spring.....................................170Solomon's Song......................187They that Conquer.....................27The Promised Land...................47Texas........................................65The Trumpet..............................77Travelling to the Grave...............79The Pilgrim's Lot.....................104Tennessee...............................114The Saint's Adieu....................124Tranquility...............................126To-Day...................................133The Pearl.................................136The Rivulet..............................174Urmund....................................172Windham...................................18Wells.........................................19Warrenton.................................56Winter.....................................101Watchman.......................,.......129Wondrous Love.......................143Whitestown.............................180ANTHEMS.Christian Song.........................185Claremont...............................211Easter Anthem........................195Farewell Anthem.....................219Ode on Science......................208O Praise God in his Holiness...216Solomon's Song.....................187The Rose of Sharon................199Western Mount Pleasant.........206METRICAL INDEX.L.M.Ballston...................................161Clinton......................................66Davisson's Retirement..............74Exhortation.............................155Holy Army..............................119Huntingdon.............................175Invitation.................................178Iowa.......................................178Kedron.....................................45Mount Olivet.............................51Old Hundred.............................11Overton..................................106Paradise....................................68Parting Hand.............................95Portugal..................................100Prospect...................................15Salem.......................................23Tranquility...............................126Wells........................................19Whitestown............................180Windham..................................18C. M.Africa........................................97Anticipation...............................75Antioch...................................130Aurora......................................40Bradley.....................................38China........................................39Christmas..................................69Chrisian Soldier.......................120Consolation...............................21Coronation.............................117Deep Spring..............................93Detroit......................................22Devizes.....................................94Dublin.....................................129Ebenezer...................................33Edom.....................................146Erin...........................................26Exchange................................137Fairfield.....................................20Farewell....................................32Hamburg.................................111Holston.....................................33Hopewell..................................37Humility..................................112Jordan's Shore......................177Joyful......................................141Leander....................................61Liberty.....................................98Liverpool................................113Mear........................................14Messiah....................................72Milford...................................152Montgomery...........................158New Durham............................59New Market.............................63Newport...................................17Ninety-Fifth..............................35Northfield...............................115North Salem...........................110Ocean.....................................159Ortonville................................128Peru........................................133Pleasant Hill..............................43Pleyel's Hymn, 2d..................151Redeeming Love.......................53Reflection..................................13Salvation...................................24Soda.........................................67Solitude in the Grove...............154St. Martin's..............................39Sutton.....................................113Sweet Rivers.............................41Tennessee...............................114The Promised Land...................47Watchman...............................129Winter.....................................101S. M.Albany......................................68Albion......................................12America....................................28Arbour......................................90Boylston..................................181Broomfield..............................131Creation..................................157Evening Shade..........................52Florida......................................62Idumea.....................................44Marion....................................164Ninety-Third.............................25Olney......................................149P. M.Christian Contemplation............48Concord...................................46Confidence...............................87Crucifixion................................73David's Victory.......................96Erie.........................................105Lenox.......................................42Malinda..................................127Miles' Lane...........................116New Topia.............................163Sharon....................................153Spring.....................................170Star in the East........................1088s & 7s.Athens......................................97Benevento................................50Gray Ridge...............................78Heavenly Armour......................56Holy Manna............................107Importunity...............................60Lena.......................................168Middlebrook............................36Ornan.....................................182Sion's Security.........................30Warrenton................................567s.Canton....................................103Choral Song.............................27Convoy....................................29Hasten, Sinner, to be wise.......140Iantha.....................................128Indian's Farewell...................134Martyn...................................150Middletown............................173Texas.......................................65They that Conquer....................277s & 6s.Amsterdam.............................169Celebration.............................118Emerald Gates..........................58Eusebia...................................164Greenland.................................85Mexico...................................147Midnight Cry............................84Missionary Hymn......................88Morning Trumpet......................998,8,6.Few Happy Matches.................81Indian Philosopher.....................80Kingwood.................................83Lancaster..................................91Marietta....................................90The Pilgrim's Lot....................10411s.Brooklyn...................................70Cumberland............................125Morality....................................89Persia........................................76Protection..................................57Summer...................................1226 lines 10s.The Rivulet..............................174C. M. D.Meditation...............................13910,4,4,10,4,4,10,10,10,4,3.Long Ago................................18310s & 11s.Cuba.......................................15611,11,11,5,11.Home........................................54Home, sweet Home...................5511s & 8s.Lone Pilgrim..............................49New Salem...............................348,7,4.Oliphant..................................1458s.Egypt......................................150Greenfields................................16Minstrel...................................16611s & 10s.Come ye Disconsolate...............298,6,8,6,4,6.Cardiphonia............................1388s & 4s.Urmund..................................1728s & 10s.Bequest.....................................716s.Marston...................................131L.P.M. or 6 l. 8s.Spring Place............................1356s & 4s.Native Country..........................31To-Day...................................13312,9,6,6,12,9.Wondrous Love......................1437,6,7,6,7.Bower......................................867,7,7,5,7,7,7,5.Bruce's Address......................1098,6,8,6,8,8,8,6.Lorinda.....................................757,6,7,6,7,7,7,6.Delaware..................................927,6,7,6,8,8,6,6.The Pearl................................1368,7,8,5.I have my Trials.........................6412sSeaman...................................121The Trumpet.............................7710,6,10,6,8,7,8,6.The Saint's Adieu...................1247,6,8,7,7,6,7,6.France....................................148Salutation................................1446,6,6,6,8,6,8,6.Travelling to the Grave...............7912s & 9s.Exultation..................................82Rapture...................................12312s & 11s.Funeral Thought......................102H. M.Lischer....................................132Back CoverTHE HARP OF COLUMBIA.The Merits of the Harp of Columbia have been tested in the use of seven editions.
                    It has met the approval of many respectable Musicians, in the Northern and
                    Southern States; and none have been known to disapprove the system, whose
                    interest or prejudice has not induced them to adhere to the complexity cast
                    around the Science of Vocal Music in other works.Hogarth, the celebrated Musician, has said "The path to Musical knowledge has,
                    for the most part, been rendered rugged and toilsome, by the interposition of
                    many needless difficulties. Things really plain and simple have been invested
                    with an air of mystery; and the great principles and leading rules of the art,
                    though in themselves easily explained and easily understood, have been buried
                    beneath a mass of useless technicalities."The conviction that this is the case, led to the publication of this work, by
                    means of which many have learned to sing correctly, who heretofore have been
                    deterred from attempting to join in that interesting part of sacred worship.The work can be had of some merchant in almost every county town in East
                    Tennessee.It can be had at wholesale, of F. Hagan & Bro., Nashville, Tenn.; Henry J.
                    Loring, St. Louis, Mo.; E.S. M'Guire, Batesville, Ark.; W.A.L. Swan, Henderson,
                    Texas; M.L. Swan, Bellafonte, Ala.Application for agencies, with recommendations, can be addressed toM. L. SWAN, Knoxville, Tenn.