Page 1

Mrs M B C Ramsey 163 East Main St. knoxville Tennessee

Page 2

University of the South Sewanee Tenn. July 27th Dear Mrs Ramsay I did receive your letter with great pleasure, & wrote you a long letter, in May, explaining the reason of my not visiting Knoxville last winter -- I did not know your street or number & directed simply to Knoxville -- so it may still be among the uncalled for letters at the Post Office -- I spent two months in Charleston, with great pleasure -- Of a family of eight, there are but two left to me -- one brother & one sister -- who are more precious to me now than ever, so it was a great happiness to be with them.

Page 3

By November my daughter and her six children will have left Sewanee for a new home in New Orleans -- their house is rented to a stranger, & we shall miss them more than words can tell -- but I trust they will return every summer , & the two eldest boys will continue to go to school here. This place is improving very much -- there are six private residences going up, at the same time, for new families, who have moved here to settle. I have never known so much going in at one time since I have been here -- A Hotel, which has only been established for two years -- is crowded already, & the Chapel so full, I cannot get my own seat unless I go very early.

Page 4

Last winter my daughter Mrs Elliott got a Teacher from the North to instruct my little Deaf grand daughter Esther, together with her younger sister & brother, which is the reason I was able to go away -- I returned here by April to enable my daughter to visit New Orleans, where her husband has established himself as a Physician, but he did not like to move his family down there until the Autumn so I took care of the children while the made him a six weeks visit, & as soon as the returned moved over to my own cottage next door, where I spend the summer with my three single daughters -- next week I expect two relation from Charleston to spend a couple of months, so we shall have a house full.

Page 5

We have not had propitious weather this season, but it has been perfectly healthy. Until the last two weeks, it rained incessantly, & ruined my raspberry crop -- & grapes are rotting & dropping off -- so we shall have very few if any. Just now it is very hot that is the ther & has been up to 85 in the shade, &strangers who have come from the cities were is remains in the nineties for weeks, are complaining of heat -- The two first weeks in August are Our Commencement days here -- Students graduate, & receive honors & medals -- The Trustees meet & distinguished visitors from other places, make speeches & Orations -- There is a large ball, & many receptions, to which my daughters go, but I hear nothing, but what is going on in the Chapel on Sunday, as I do not enjoy those things now. I hope I shall be able to visit Knoxville next winter, & you will certainly see me if I do -- Give my love to your daughter, & believe me yours truly Mary E. Huger

