Page 1

The following text is a continuation from the bottom of this, the first page of the letter. than a fourth of the time I expected to be absent from you is past - Write me how you are yourself - what kind of weather you have - here we have the appearances of spring - roses in bloom all through the gardens & other vegetables growing - Tell the Col. I am not treating him right - but will write to him next - I could not rest till I would in some way atone to you for the unruley & unintentional usioned . Pardon me my dear for all I do or have done wrong & believe me incapable when I am myself of giving you the least pain - Give the children all a kiss from me - I need not repeat what I have said about & for them - The God of their Fathers rather bless them & you. Most sincerely yours truly J.G.M. Ramsey - You wont of course let every body see these letters The preceding text is a continuation from the bottom of this, the first page of the letter. The following text is a continuation of the fourth page of the letter. are pretty good. Mrs. Day is a plain kind of a woman but ignorant of every thing out of town - but perhaps I shall stay here while I am in Charleston. - I am obliged to Dr. Coffin for his visit to you & for his good offices towards myself - Tell Miss D. that I say she must stay with you till B.J.C. returns. May-be our neighbour Jack can prevail on her to stay near us longer - I wish you had said how long B.J. expected to stay in Nashville & ask about her & your Papa's family - every thing interests me so much that I wish you would be minute in your details - I thank you my dear a thousand times for your letters but you must recall the expression "I feel very anxious since I find you are so" I beg you to make yourself happy - I shall forbid I have already forbidden my self to think of the past or reflect upon the present - I only allow my self to think of what is future - especially that I shall meet you all in health & prosperity in 70 or 80 days - It is pleasure to believe that more The preceding text is a continuation of the fourth page of the letter. Free J.G.M. Ramsey P.M. at Mecklenburg Tenn. Mrs. Margaret B.C. Ramsey Mecklenburg near Knoxville E. Tennessee

Page 2

Charleston Nov. 30, Sunday Morning My dear Wife After the lectures yesterday I called in at the Post-Office - having little expectation however of receiving a letter from Tenn. (having rec. one from the Col. on Wednesday) but was agreeably disappointed indeed on opening it to find the name of my dear Margaret at the bottom. & I hasten to make any atonement I can (if my letters of recent date have not done so) for some accidental expressions I must have made that have created any inquietude or uneasiness in your bosom. A person as susceptible as I am & who relishes with so much zeal the purity of domestic enjoyment you are well aware could not leave home without feeling regrets - which would be heightened according to the length of his intended absence & the cause & object of it - These feelings I indulged in no further than I could not prevent & I have manifold more resolution in resisting their influence than perhaps you will be disposed to grant me. I may I must have communicated some of them to you but you know an accidental expression is not always an index of a habitual state of mind - & also how great an alleviation of any species of suffering is derived from the sympathy of others. Hence it is that in the relation of unpleasant feelings we lighten the burden on ourselves & vice versa if we are indulging pleasurable sensations their zeal is much heightened by imparting them to others. - but this is too philosophical - When I left you I was leaving much - when I left our children the sacrifice was increased - every day I progressed on my journey I was getting further from you - when I left Mecklenburg N.C. I was leaving a people who had received not only their religious privileged & advantages in a considerable degree from my ancestors but were also indebted to them for their civil institutions & who of course felt not only as friends but as relations - Moreover you know from the nature of my pursuits how fully I was absorbed in business at home - my profession - my offices - my farm - ferry - mules - &c &c left no vacuum for ennui - but on leaving them all the engines of mind & body were directed solely & exclusively to my trunk - Not a single journey for a single day varied the scene (- except part of a day in Wicks when I had variety enough of another kind) by the way Have you even recd. a letter from Wilksboro relating my adventures in the Mountain?) - I have now got as far from you as I ever will be & much further than I wish - I am becoming interested in the Lectures - & begin to look forward to the time of my joyful return to you in Feby & hope to be able hereafter to overcome even better than heretofore any home-sickness I may have & I shall I think pass my time off tolerably pleasantly - while I continue to hear that you are well - be sure to write every Wednesday & to be very particular even minute in every

Page 3

thing that directly or indirectly affects you - us - ours. You tell me to write particularly about my health - I will do so - but I expect you also to communicate with great particularity your own state of health - your feelings - & every thing which you know interests me. Especially if you wish me to be at home 15th of January - What is thy request queen Esther? & it shall be granted to the content of my whole kingdom. My self - my all - are yours exclusively & entirely yours. The church bells are ringing & I will defer till after sermon the rest of my letter - Sunday night. - My old land-lady sent me up word this morning that if I intend to go to a Baptist Church she would be glad to furnish me a seat. I accordingly accepted the invitation & attended the only Baptist Church in town - Mr. Ludlow preached - Is Christ divided? was the text & his subject of course the Unity of Christ. He took occasion to mention that the belief of this fundamental essential & important doctrine was required of all persons before Baptism could be administered. He was ingenuous but the last sermon you & I heard together at Lebanon had fixed my belief on that subject & I remain unmoved. Tell Mr. Eagleton that I heard his doctrine assaulted but that I believe he could have refuted the reasoning brought against it. In the afternoon having the whole City to select from I went to hear Mr. Bruce in the Scotch Church (2nd Presbyterian Church of Charleston) Presbyterianism in Scotland you know I consider the Christian Church & you will of course not feel surprised at my selection. The grave & solemn manner of their preacher - the catholocism of his doctrines - his evangelical piety - the fervor of his prayers - the attentive & prayerful countenances of his auditory - the old tunes the choristers sing & their inimmitable antique demeanor during service are just what you would expect & wish to see. (This is no complyment I mean it is a true one) for you are not one that likes fashion in religion - ) Before their service commenced I strolled alone through their Church Yard - It is one of the oldest in the U.S. & every tomb stone almost says "here lies &c from shire in Scotland." I expect after my curiosity is satisfied hearing other preachers I shall become a slated hearer pro-tem - of Mr. Bruce. Listen to his text in this fashionable city & you will know some-thing of the man & his congregation - "Yield yourself wholly & acceptable to God which is your reasonable service". This is as near as I can recollect it & I believe I am not far wrong. - I shall never again condemn the practice of rising to sing the last verse of a hymn as methodistical inasmuch as these old Blue-Stockings practice it. I have no doubt the oldest Bruce that ever preached in the oldest shire in Scotland done the same. Tell the Col. & Mr. McNeil to have this matter attended to in our old Scotch-Church - Perhaps Paul himself done so. - Service is holden this evening by Mr. Capers a very eloquent divine at Trinity Church but as I can hear him again & as I have an opportunity of an epistolary conversation with my dear M. & as I have a little sore throat I concluded not to go out - Before dismissing this subject I will just observe in general that this town is much more quiet & orderly on Sunday than I had expected to find it - Indeed there is very little noise & no disorder - The sacerdotal dress confined in other places to the episcopalians & Papists is here worn by the clergy of all denominations. Even my old Scottish Bruce had on his gown & his square creval - He has no doubt his authority for it -

Page 4

I have heard that Mr. Palmer to whom I have letters from my good friend Mr. Foster preaches in town - I recd. also letters in N.C. to Dr. McDowell another clergyman of distinction here. These gentlemen I have not yet found leisure to call upon - nor have I yet called upon my friend Dr. Rutledge but yesterday evening as I stepped off the exchange with you letter in my hand coming to my room to read it (for no one reads here in the street - ) I heard a well known & recognized voice say Doctor Ramsey & before I saw the countenance my hand was embraced cordially very cordially by Mr. Rutledge cold & phlegmatic as he seems to be in Tennessee. I am very glad to see you in town - how did you leave your family? I shewed the letter I had just then received I hope he continued you will receive good news from home. Did you receive a letter & bundle from me in the summer. On my replying in the negative he expressed much regret - he had recd my letter & replyed to it by Mr. Roper who promised to deliver it & also among other things this is a complyment worth receiving - common periodicals he never reads & to suppose I had similar taste is no trifling eulogism) Where have you stopped I told him my number - He is according to his own appointment & invitation (is this S.C. etiquette?) to call at my room tomorrow afternoon at 5 Oclock - where I will indeed by very glad to see him - He is not like some people good to promise & always forgetful of his promise - Without an enquiry from me on the subject he told me he would send me down his medical Books tomorrow & would take pleasure in introducing me to several societies in the City - I will only have to look grave - affect familiarity with their proceedings &c &c - & get along as well as I can - You know I have various as in emergencies - If the articles he sent arrive - take good care of the inform me what they are &c & the contents of his letter. Speaking of this acquaintance reminds me of another I saw yesterday & when you get leisure you can make a tragedy out of it - In visiting the Hospital & Alms-house yesterday I ascended upstairs passage fronting the wards for lunatics & insane people. In looking through the grates that seperate them from the rational world I saw setting in a window with his face averted partly from me a person whom I thought I knew I called out involuntarily (it is contrary to the rules of the Institution to speak to the insane) or instinctively Kincaid - Heh he quickly replied & without knowing who called him came to grating - Do you know me Kincaid - He reached his finger through to me why Ramsey - & then convulsively from us walked down to seat again in the window - whistling & laughing as he went - I afterwards got the keeper to let me into his ward - & I asked him how he was - nothing is the matter with me Ramsey - I am very well - & quickly absented himself again - I shall enquire more about him - There are many insane persons here - You recollect D.D. Ramsey was killed by a lunatic from this hospital - But my sheet admonishes me to leave this medley of subjects & come home to home things a little - My general health is not worse than when you saw me - I have no cough no spitting - no heater - my appetite is tolerably good - & my strength greater than when I left home - I have while I write some pain in my shoulder & breast but it generally disappears on motion - I intend to exercise sufficiently - & not to read too much - My boarding is tolerably good - My nerves however will not be destroyed by strong coffee or heavy suppers - perhaps this is well for me - The Col. can tell you that their dinners

