Page 1

1864 June 22-July 6 Lockmans diary Soldiers Letter John T. Lockman @ il ins V Edward Dewitt Esqr 88 Nassau prest New York City,

Page 2

Hqres 119 M near Marietta Ga June 22nd 1864 4 am still in old position - nothing new or stirring 10 am we have moved 3/4 ofa mile nearer to the rebels & taken a good position - built breastworks & are awaiting the next move 8 PM About 4 1/2 pm the Rebels made an attack on one of the Brigades afour 1st division &were signally repulsed with heavy loss we had a good view of the attack and repulse as it occurred about half a mile to our right - our men had just taken position &had not thrown up any breast works &did not number all told 1000 men the rebel Genl Hood' Corps nunurred ages

Page 3

the extreme right afour line and "stevensons" division charged the federal Brigade we killed & wounded nearly double the number ofmen we had under fire - our artillery fire was effective &destructive - & served to great advantage it was almost enough to drive them back alone. At dusk our Brigade moved to close up a gap between the 1 dw & ans (the 2nd) & we had to build more breastworks - the rebels did not come out very boldly & when they retired it was in anything but good order & with heavy loss. June 23d 4am. nothing new 8 Pm ourfront is very quiet the 4 Corp

Page 4

had a brisk skirmish at 4 1/2 p.m. lasting until 5 pm we busied ourselves with strengthening our works. June 24 1864 5am No move this am - the picket firing increases at intervals & then there is a lull along the lines. The weather is most awfully hot - & but little shade - the troops stand it well & dont seem to mind it a great deal 9 PM Heavy picket firing - nothing new or important to note June 25 1864 5am No move this am one Corps still occupies it old position 6 PM There has

Page 5

been heavy firing on our left to day & it is presumed this a portion of the 14 Corps engaged - where the army of the Tennessee is, no one appears to know. We hold one of the main roads leading from Marietta to Atlanta and are just as near the river as the Rebels should they fall back we can pursue as rapidly as they retreat - Everything seems working finely June 26 5am Still in old position - a new work was finished last night for Artillery & our breastworks were connected on the righr & left so as to form a continuous line- 11 am Tis rumored to day that Genl Rosecranz with 100000 men

Page 6

is moving to re-enforce our Army - with that number added to our present force - we will be able to surround Johnston's Army = we are situated so that should Johnston rtreat we could reach Atlanta about the same- time 8 P.M. rumors of a move to-morrow morning at daylight. to attack a hill in front of 4.corp tis rumored that our attack is to be a feint. June 27 4AM all ready for a move 7 AM moved and took position in front of our division and soon moved on the enemy after driving their advance

Page 7

picket & skirmishes in we were halted & directed to entrench which we did in short order & we now hold the ground entrenched & 20sdy for a stubborn resistance in case of attack - 9 PM. Pickets keep up a bruily fire & do but little damage - June 28 1864. 4am Still in old position all remains same - as usual. 9 PM nothing new 11 PM heavy musketry fire hoke out on the night but it soon ceased - I have not learned the cause of it June 29, 1864 4 am

Page 8

under Arms a daylight no attack night passed rather quietly 1 PM detailed as Field Officer of the day of division - 11 PM just returned from a visit to the lines gave the Brigade officers instructions not to allow the men to fire unless the enemy made an advance or demonstration consequently we had a quiet night- June 30 4 am About 2am the Rebels attacked a portion of the 14 Corp immediately on the left of & connecting with our division &they were repulsed with loss the action lasted about 20 min 7 PM orders recd

Page 9

to hold ourselves in readiness to move at a moments notice as we were to be relieved &move further to the right 11 PM moved from old position July 1. 2am in new position any Regt being in the advanced works about 300 yards from main line - till called a port of observation but use e c dont see anything but woods on any side. 9 PM quiet sieges all day long the bullets have rung - hummed and whizzed over and darkness brings us quite a relief - July 2 -4am Heavy Artillery and skirmish fire opened along our lines the Rebels did not reply 9 PM quiet rebels reported to be retreating

Page 10

July 3d 1864. 3 am Rebels left their position at 11 PM & retreated - tis said to the south bank of the Chattahoochee river - our skirmishes are getting a large number of prisoners - I being in the temporary command form Brigade - was the first into "the Rebel works.- "the 1 & 3d Brigades lying nearce followed 6 P M we have just halted to Camp for the night - Marietta & the strong position on Kenesaw Mts are in our possession we are camped 6 1/2 miles from the river &1 b - from Atlanta - Giony enough for one 4& of July = I think the number of prisoners taken by our div

Page 11

will amount to 200. nearly all the div average 150 - & the whole number taken yesterday will be over 3000 some say 5000. they are getting tired of fighting ^& hundreds will desert & come in as soon as they can - 9 PM all quiet July 4 1864. 4 am Our Bands are all playing & the National Airs float over Georgia in grand style we have penetrated one vast wilderness. 170 miles fought almost daily since 8-May- & we are not out of the woods yet nor have we Atlanta - both of which events I trust to be able to chronicle are another score of days God willing 9 PM quiet reigned

Page 12

along our front. the 15 corp attacked & carried the 1st line of the enemies works in their front July 5. 4 am- The Rebels retreated during the night - we move in pursuit immediately 4 1/2 PM we have come up with the enemy they are strongly posted on a ridge running parallel with the Chattahoochee river & distant about 1 1/2 miles there from - I climbed a tree & had a good view of the famed City of Atlanta & the surrounding Country & works tis a likely place - & seems to stand on high ground - the Country looks level but very woody - the sight of the town enspirits the men & they really have an opportunity

Page 13

of seeing the (objective) point of their 6 3 days campaign the trees are filled with the curious "Yanks" all eager to see Atlanta. At Genl Hookers Hd Qurs a view of the town can be attained from the ground - & hundreds avail themselves of it - Tis no word that the 17 Corp is to attack this afternoon their artillery is now engaged 9 P.M. no attack made - quiet reigns July 6. 1864. 5 am No orders to move as yet skirmishes are being pushed to feel for the rebels have found them - tis not likely they will fall back without being compelled to by a flank movement or a defeat-

