Page 1

Near Greenville Greeneville Oct. 29th 1863 Dear Wife I received Your letter this morning and I was glad to here from You but when you hear from me You will nodoubt be Surprised, I am now at at Greenville Greeneville or Near there we left Jonesboro Jonesborough yesterday morning and we traveled 22 miles. I am very near brake down. I think we will go on down the Country I am afraid I am worse out of heart this morning than I have binn Sence this war began It is becaus we are going down the country I am Sceard this morning I am a frade we will retreet back to Knoxville If we do then my trouble sets in I dont want you to be troubled You must bare It the best you can. I Could not help Shed tears when I red your letter You no I will excuse you I no you will write as often as you can I wish you had bin home when Laura went up to

Page 2

See you: Jo Winters came up yesterday and Father came up Last Night I begin to think I was not going to get any letter but debusk came this morning and brought me two letter for the first I have got but I was proud to get then you dont no how much good It done me to get a letter from you. but I am afrad It is a going to be So I Cant hear from you, nor ya cant hear from me. I was pond you sent me then things but I am a frade I cant get them things for you. Oh If I Could get to come home I would giv all this wourld If I had It but I cant come now I am coming when I toled Ya I would If not befor but If there is any chance in the world I will com before that time. do the best ya can I am shops we wont go far down the Coutry. If we dont I will come good by and write soon and as often as you can you affetud husband R A R

Page 3

If Jo Winters brings anything to William you send me something to Eat Send me some Chees and butter If we stay here I will bring that black boy home to sow my Wheat, and you get that corn from John Fresh. I think If we stay here a few days I will come home and If we go on down the Country It will be doubteful. I will bring my few Lins to a close give my Respect to all of the familey Your affectinat husband R A Ragan

