Page 1

Mrs. M.B.C. Ramsey Mecklinburg Tennessee Mr. Wallis

Page 2

Dr. Alexander's Tuesday Evening Nov. 11, 1828 Dear Wife If all my letters arrive safe at Mecklinburg you will think I write often enough however little worthy of your attention I communicate - But as your letters to me have miscarried I fear the same fate may have attended mine to you & I therefore take this method by Cousin J.M. Wallis to tell you in a few words that on the whole my health is improving I think - & that if I could forget one melancholy instance of the instability of all human & sublunary enjoyments I would pass my time though absent from you & any home even pleasantly - Today I spent in Charlotte - a place you know with me of some notoriety - I saw Mr. Polk from Tennessee - who politely showed me Cornwallis' head-quarters - the grave-yard of his soldiers &c - Tell the Col. L.R.C.C. that I went about among the vast crowds that frequent a N.C. court on Tuesday giving an attentive ear to what was saying by those of Genl. Jackson - Two Adams electors were on the ground & no one of the Jackson Ticket but 2 or 3 to one were evidently in favor of our

Page 3

candidate. There is no need to enlarge here on this topic - but I cannot keep from attending the election Thursday next - Mr. Wallis I hope will stay one day at least with you - he is so home-sick that he could not be prevailed on to rest but one day here - I ask him how he supposes I do who may be absent from home a month or two or three yet? I answer to you I will do as well as I can. I know my duty to myself to my family & to my country requires the sacrifice & I yield to the necessity of it with as much cheerfulness as I can command & perhaps with more than you suppose from some accidental expressions in my letters - but I disguise nothing from you & feeling when I write as if I were by you & conversing with you I perhaps come out with too little reserve in some places - You must not form erroneous conclusions from such expressions - Our friends are all well & are doing well - I find all of them are members of their Mother Church - The Presbyterian - except Dr. Caldwell - who has had his little son baptised - even Uncle J.M.A. in his old age has made a profession

Page 4

of the religion of his Fathers. All the young of the connection are in full commu - A wedding is expected in a few day for which I am invited to wait - R. D. Caldwell - but I shall be on my way before it takes place - My friends are ions that I should stay longer here than tended - but next Wednesday I shall set Campden S.C. - against that shall receive a letter from calculate high water preven week - Uncle Baum has made enough me to be at Mr. Henderson's tomorrow night - The election Thursday - Major Davidson's Friday - B Alexanders Saturday - Hopewell Sunday, John Alexanders Monday. W. Alexander Tuesday & Wednesday I leave them for the South - Tell Croz to what I told & to be always good - These things of course you will not permit every one to see - but those who have parents or can estimate parental solicitude will overlook & excuse it - I have only time to say Love unceases I am yours J.G.M. Ramsey

