Page 1

Sept 18th 1863 Mr. George W. Probert Pittsfield Swain Co, Ohio

Page 2

Knoxville Tennessee Sept 18th 1863 My own dear Sarah Well darling it is a long time since I have written to you, and I have no doubt but what you will begin to think by the time you this that there is surely something the matter with me, or else I have entirely forgotten you. if you have got the last letter that I wrote to you you will see by that where we were going, and have some kind of an idea of what the chances are here to send letters, after they are written. the Battery has been here nearly two weeks and have not had any mail yet from home. and for my part I begin to feel as though we had got where we will never here from home again. our march across the mountains was a long and very hard one both for man and beast. we left Crab Orchard, Ky. the 21st of Aug and that was about the last we saw of civilized life till we were within about 25 miles of Knoxville. the roads began to get pretty hilly after we left Somerset and kept growing worse all the while till we got most through. and Sunday the 23 of Aug we crossed the Cumberland river quite a swift and wide stream and where we forded about 2 1/2 or 3 feet deep and a solid rock bottom, and covered over with loose stones the water was very clear. but here it seemed as though our hard work had jest began. for the hill to go up from the river was very near 1 1/2 miles long and in some places so steep, rocky and crooked that it looked almost impossible to get up at all. but by taking plenty of time and putting 10 horses on each piece and casson we got up. that was about all we done that day was to get over the river. we went into camp and stayed till the

Page 3

next day about noon waiting for the baggage train to cross so that we could all move off together as much as possible. they were all day Sunday and that night and the next day crossing the river and when we started from camp there was 4 or 500 wagons to come over. I heard it said that there was about 1000 wagons in the train. we generally got up in pretty good season to march and some of the time got into camp for the night in pretty good season. in the evening of the 25th of Aug I got a letter from you, and I tell you, although it was short it done me a good deal of good to hear from you away off there in the wilderness, for we marched through the woods most all the time after we crossed the Cumberland, only once in a great while that we passed a house. on the 26 we crossed the line into Tennessee. we had inquired for a number of miles where the line was and the folks told us how we would know when we came to it. there was a large square stone stuck up on one side of the road so plain that we could not help but see it; all along, there was plenty of pine timber and in some places plenty of cedar, and no end to the rocks both above and below the surface of the ground along there and for two or three days after while we were on top of hose hills the air was very clear and cool. on the 31st of Aug, we marched through a town at the foot of the mountains called Montgomery some 4 or 5 houses in it that were inhabited and as many more that were empty. on the 1st of Sept we drew 8 days rations to carry with us and the next day started for Knoxville about 2 oclock and marched till midnight. on the 3d of Sept crossed the Clinch river by fording. that was a very clear stream and about 3 feet deep where we crossed and a rock bottom

Page 4

on the 4th of Sept we encamped outside of Knoxville having marched that day 22 miles. on the 5th we left camp and marched through town and went into camp again. the rebels have held this place ever since the war began, and I dont see why they did not try to hold the place. they had thrown up breastworks on two or three hills and that is about all they did do for they were all gone before our Cavalry came into the place. here they had a conscript camp that they confined there conscripts in so as to hold them. Knoxville must have been quite a place before the war began but it looks now as though it was the oldest place in the world and been allowed to run down ever since it was built. the rebels have driven all the union people most out of the place and stripped them of most everything. there has been 4 men hung here for there loyalty to the union and h of them put into prison. we are encamped on quite a hill a little peace out of town, but I can see hills all around us that are a good deal higher, and some that are pretty near big enough to be mountains, that must be 30 or 40 miles off. on the Sunday the 6th of Sept we stayed in camp all day and the most that I rember of doing that day was to sleep. on the morning of the 7th the section that I belong to was called up about 2 oclock and at 4 we started out of camp with 3 days rations of hard bread and 1 of salt meat. when we started up we did not know where we were going but finally found out that it was Cumberland Gap 60 miles from Knoxville. we were 2 1/2 days going there. we got there in the forenoon of the 10th and expected to have a fight at that place sure, but were again disappointed for they surrendered about 1/2 past 3 the same day that we got there. the troops that went with us were

Page 5

the 44th & the 104th Ohio regiments and the 4th Ohio Battery and our section. Gen'l Burnside himself went along with us. he got there early in the morning the same day that we got there and gave them till 3 oclock that afternoon to make there minds which they would do fight or surrender and they finally saw fit to give the place up. there was quite a force of Cavalry there ahead of us and a force on the other side of the Gap from us that had come in from Ky the nearest way. but it seems the reason they did not show any fight here was because they had to many conscripts and North Carolina soldiers that wouldnt fight to risk a battle and have to loose the place after all. about 4 oclock Burnside and all the mounted force on the side that we were and the 104th regiment marched up to take possession of the place. I have never seen the official report of the number of prisoners but have heard there was about 2500 of them and 12 pieces of artillery. you have no doubt heard of it long before this. the nearest that I was to the Gap was about 3 miles, but to look straight across to the Gap from where we were it did not seem more than a mile. the mountains on each side of the Gap are very high and the Gap is only wide enough for 1 wagon to go along at a time, and consequently very easy to defend. two pieces of Artillery could sweep all the forces that could be sent against out of existence in a little while. and the hills on each side of the Gap look as though it would almost be impossible to get up. the timber is all cut off of them and the tops of them look pretty bare, most all bare rock to I guess.

Page 6

with a few thousand determined men well provisioned in that Gap I dont see how any force are a going to take them it is almost impossible to do it as long as they have plenty of provisions. on the 11th we left camp on our return to Knoxville. and when we started we had 8 or 9 mules hitched on to the two pieces in the place of horses that had given out and gone. the first day going back we marched 15 miles and a little while before we put up for the night. we went through a place called Tazewell of about 200 population, a year ago in November the rebels burned 36 houses in the place and I tell you the place looks pretty hard now. we got back into camp in Knoxville monday forenoon the 14th of Sept. and there is no mistake about it I am glad of it for a little rest will be very exceptable. on tuesday morning we had an inspection in camp, and that Evening all the troops were marched down town to see a fellow belonging to Wolfords Cavalry drumed before his regiment and all the rest with 1/2 of his head shaved his hands tied behind him and a large placard pined on his breast with the word thief printed on it in large letters, for robbing a house and then setting it on fire, and besides all that he is sent to Johnsons Island for the rest of his term of service without pay. that is a pretty severe punishment. yesterday I did not do much of anything but lay down and rest myself a little. some of the time it is very warm. yesterday it was uncomfortable warm in the shade and doing nothing at that, and today it is uncomfortable without plenty of clothes

Page 7

on. it rained a little last night and it turned around quite cool and has been cloudy all day. oh darling it is a long time since I have heard from you and it may be a long time yet before I get a letter from you. and another thing I dont know when this can be got away from here for there is no established mail yet. if I could only here from some of you at home, how glad I should be, and how happy I should be to hear that my darling was well and had been since I last heard from her. we have had a long and hard march since we left Lexington. it must be 170 or 180 miles the way we came from here to Lexington and then our section went to the Gap and back making 120 miles more. now I think it is no more than fare if they let us stay here and get a good rest. Sunday Sept 20th darling one I did not have time to finish the letter up on friday. I put it by calculating to finish it yesterday, but come to find out we had to move camp in the morning over to the west side of the town and there we stayed till after dinner, and then we had to move camp again the last time into the woods, first clearing out the brush. and now we have got a pretty nice little camp and I hope they will let us stay here a little while. I was so busy that I could not get a chance to write any yesterday. but oh Sarah I did think of you pretty often. we are now encamped about 60 rods from the river Holston. it carries this name for 25 miles and then from there the Tennessee. it is a pretty wide stream and pretty clear water. it is navigable for small stern wheel boats for 30 miles above here I believe. when I commenced writing this I had not the best idea when I should get a chance to send it off. but this morning I have heard that there is a mail

Page 8

to leave here tomorrow morning early. and we have got to have it ready by 3 oclock this afternoon to leave camp. and so I concluded that I would take right hold and write this morning what I had to write for darling I have no doubt but that you are anxiously waiting and looking for a letter every day. I know I should like to hear from you first rate, but there is no telling when any mail will come here. and still it seems as though they might have a mail coming through now the Gap is open, & as soon as they get the railroad clear between here and Chattanooga we had ought to have mail pretty regular and once more get full rations. now we get niether sugar or coffee salt meat. the supply trains have got delayed somewhere and the Commissary department is pretty near cleaned out, and it has been so dry here that vegetables are not very fleshy potatoes are selling for $1 a bushel onions $2 butter 25 cts, sugar in town is worth 65 cts, a pound, but this is nothing to what they did ask for stuff when we came here (in Confederate money boots were selling for $40 a pair, ladies shoes $30 and other stuff in proportion.) the same boots are now selling for $10 a pair in our money. that I call a pretty good price for a pair of common cowhide boots. while the rebels were here they did not draw any Government rations, but lived on the country. they would go to a union man's house and take the very best things he had in the world and walk off without a word. and the best thing he could do was to keep still. oh I tell you what Sarah I have been glad a hundred times that we lived so north as we do for I think that a much greater curse could not happen to any section of country than to have an army pass through it, whether hostile or not. for they strip everything on there

Page 9

route. orchards potatoes patches cornfields and eat the people out of house and home. I know I have thought a great many times that if an army ever went through a country where I lived I would shut up house and go into the woods to live. I dont know but what I am getting so much written here that you will never read the whole of it. but there is no telling when I shall get a chance to send you another letter. but I will write to you as often as I can Sarah, wheather I write to any of the rest or not, and if I have time I will write to the rest of the folks occasionally. remember me to the boys all of them and your father and mother especially. I wish Sarah I could hear from you as often as I did in Kentucky I would be satisfied. and I dont know but what I shall have to be anyhow. I wish that I could be up there this morning for jest a little whiles. I would like to walk around with you and get some aples. there is plenty of apples in this coutnry but all they are fit for is to make cider. there is hardly any good fruit, and I never saw corn grow so tall in my life as some I have seen here but if only I could be where I could have a good long talk with you this morning Sarah, I should like it first rate, but when such another chance as that comes around again I guess it will be for good for I dont expect to get home now till this war is over. darling I hope this will find you well. I am as well as usual and have been since I wrote to you last. I must close now hoping soon to hear from you, and remaining still as truly devoted to you as ever. John direct to Knoxville Tennessee care of Capt Joe C. Shields 19th Ohio Battery

