Page 1

Charles Pettit, Esquire Agent or Commissioner for the Insurance of Houses against Fire &a Philadelphia John Wethered 9th May 1804 Insurance on buildings at Trinidad

Page 2

Wilmington, Delaware 9th. May 1804__ Sir I this day Recd. a Letter from my Son Lewin, who is in the Mercantile line in Baltimore, informing me that my Kinsman Mr. Thomas Wethered, who is in the Customs of Trinidad, also Paymaster to the Army &ce. had Requested him to have insured at Baltimore all his Dwellings, Offices &a. Rather near than in the Town, all Wood &Nearly New for Which he Receives a Very high Rent from the Commissary, I have also Reced. a Letter from Mr. T. Wethered dated 15th. April 1804. Requesting that I yod. Refresh the Memory of Lewin Respecting the Insurance this I find unnecessary, as Lewin in his Letter informs me that it cannot be effected in the Office at Baltimore as the Charter Prevents them extending the insurance beyond Ten Miles from Town, he then Mentions the Office in Philada. extending the Policies. Which I find is Correct. Mr. Thomas Wethered is a Prudent Young Man has made his property by Attention &Prudence, &Wishes to insure his House in this Peaceable happy Country, he desires Fifteen hundred pounds Sterling may be insured for one Year, in Order to give You Every Satisfaction, I Recommend it to You to make Enquiry of any Gentleman who traded to Martinique while it was in possesion of the British Government. Mr. T. Wethered, being a Custom House Officer there must be well Known. Since the Evacuation he has Acted at Trinidad in the Same Character as he had done at Martinique_ he has Made Money, Built handsomely &wishes Insurance. After You Make Every Necessary Enquiry, Please to Write to me &Let me Know on What Terms fifteen hundd. pound. S? Insurance can be had for one Year_ Which Will Oblige Your Most Obed. Servt. John Wethered. P.S Any Gentleman from Trinidad can give You a full Acct. of both Thos. Wethered, Esquire, and his Large New Buildings. J.W.

