Page 1

Washington, D.C. January 27, 1900 J.G.M. Ramsey, Esq., Knoxville, Tenn. My dear Mac: For your information I beg to enclose you copy of a letter this day written to John Allison at Nashville. You may remember I spoke to you once about this matter. Very truly yours, W. A. Anderson

Page 2

January 27, 1900. Hon. John Allison, Nashville, Tenn. Dear Sir: I see that Dr. R. L. C. White was to present a paper at the Watkins Institute in your city on January 9th on "The true history of our state seal, including a reply to Col. W. A. Henderson's pamphlet on that subject." I do not know what he means by the pamphlet, as none has never been issued by me. As you are aware, I delivered an address upon that subject in Nashville, and I presume he has heard or seen a copy of it. I received a communication from you upon this matter some months ago, but did not answer it, because I did not wish to get into a controversy with our our old friend, Dr. White, over an immaterial matter. I think the trouble is that in some question he had propounded to be answered, he got into an error on account of his want of knowledge derivable outside of the records. I have no doubt that the statements in my lecture are absolutely true. I had a long intimate acquaintance with Dr. J. G. M. Ramsey, and saw the original seal several times, which was correctly described in the lecture. While Dr. White is no doubt correct as to the manufacture of the seal in Philadelphia, under the resolution to the effect passed by the Legislature, yet he did not stop to consider that it would take a long time to get that product into Knoxville- say from three to six months,- and that in the meantime a seal was needed for constant use in the organization of the Government. Since I received your letter I have had a conversation with J. G. M. Ramsey at Knoxville, a son and executor of the old annalist, and

Page 3

JA 2. he remembers distinctly of having seen the seal and the account of it, and gives a perfect description of it. He says the same was kept in his father's office, and was either stolen by the federal soldiers or burned. If you have any further interest in the matter, and will write a letter to him, he will tell you the facts or will furnish an affidavit. Very truly yours, W. A. Anderson

