Page 1

South Carrollton Ky Tuesday Jan. 28th Dear Father I take my pen in hand to inform you that I am well at present with the exception of a large boil on my forehead and I hope that these few lines may find you and Nancy well I have been expecting a letter for a long time but I have to look on and see the rest of the soldiers get their letters when the mail. We are in the 5th division under the orders of Lt Brigadier Gen. Crittenden. Our Lieut Col has been sick ever since we left Henderson and has now gone home on furlough

Page 2

and I expect that he will bring back some deserter's when he get back here. I would like to be at home for a while but I am enjouing myself her, very well but then I would like to see you and Nancy very well. We have been expecting our pay for a long time but as we have no received a cent. and we have about gave up the notion because we have heard so many lies about it. I wish you would write soon and tell Nancy to do so too. I has been expecting a letter for so long a time that I have quit looking for one but just wait until I get one. The reason that I have no written is because I hated to write without paying the postage on it. We have

Page 3

been expecting an attack here every night for along time and we have cut down the timber in a circle clear around the camp in a pile and every way crossways and every other way to keep the rebel Cavalry out and we have dug intrenchments and throwed up breastworks to plant canons. Yesterday and last night our company was on piquet guard, out about 2 miles from camp. Last night about midnight there was a light discovered across the road which showed itself about a minute and then disappeared as suddenly as it came directly after ward the tinkling of a bell was heard for abou three times. There was

Page 4

a squad of men went out to discover what it was & after scouting around for a little while one chased up an old coon that had a bell on her neck. but then did not account for the light. about an hour afterwards the piquets was fired upon and the light appeared again and was immediately afterwards. There was a party of men went out to see what was up but did not find anything Awhile afterwards our men saw the light again and fired three shots at it after that there was no more alarms in the night. There is a great many things I could find to write about there is not room so I will have to cut it short off. Ever remaining your affectionate Son Samuel Andrew Baker

