Page 1

Dr. J.G.M. Ramsey, Knoxville -- Tennessee.

Page 2

Madison, Jan. 25th. 1876 My Dear Dr. Ramsey: Your letter 18th inst. awakes me from neglect. God be thanked, I am in my usual health; -- a pressure of labors has caused me to neglect you. It usually takes me two full weeks to prepare for our annual meeting -- getting up the Hatisties & writing out the report -- then getting it printed & sending it off --Circular printed -- & letter writing without end. Our Society is growing wonderfully in its library & collections -- that gratifies me somewhat; & that the tout ensemble is doing unspeakable good, gratifies more than all.

Page 3

I am busy just now in getting a new room fitted up with cases for the reception of our grand collection of Wisn. antiquities; & also in circulating printed memorials to friends all over the State for signatures, praying our Legislature to add %15.00 to our annual appropriation. The old letter came duly & safely -- thank you for your good offices in the matter. the on abt. Mr. King's visit to yr. grandfather unfortunately gave no date of the time, nor anything to indicate it I am glad to have it, as it is. And so of the other. Mr. Nelson said I shd. be subject to yr. wishes as to whether I shd. keep the letter he sent me, or return it to you. Order & I will obey. Would prefer to keep both to go with my Mecklenburg Collection of letters & documents -- wh. will make, I judge, two or three volumes. I have just gone over my Mecklenburg work for the last time before sending it to the publisher to examine. Times rather rather hard with publishers, they are shy. Dengn to send it off within a week. Ever Truly Yours, Lyman C. Draper

Page 4

Circular. To the Honorable, the Legislature of the State of Wisconsin: Your petitioners respectfully represent: The State has made the book collection of the State Historical Society of Wisconsin, now numbering 65,000 volumes, for all practical purposes, the State library -- absolutely so, in all things, save in works pertaining to law. the Society is faithfully collecting files of nearly all the newspapers of the State, filled with thousands of legal notices which it is important to preserve for possible evidence in our higher courts of judicature; and, moreover, taking especial pains to collect from other States all documents bearing upon topics of legislation and humane institutions, to aid legislative committees, our Board of Charities, the Railroad Commissioners, and members of the State Geological Survey. In these departments, all so important to the best interests of the State, it is altogether probable that no other State in the Union has preserved records so full and valuable. The library of the Society has come to be recognized as a most important adjunct to the State University, furnishing facilities of investigation to the Board of Instruction, and especially to the students in preparing for their exercises in debate and composition, and for much of their general reading -- embracing a collection of books, which, for their variety and character, are excelled but by few of the higher literary institutions of the country. With the Society's best intentions, it has been impossible to supply but a small [part of the works inquired for; or to bind up for ready reference but a very small portion of our thirty-two thousand pamphlets, our newspaper files, our magazines, and books unbound or in ancient broken binding. The Society's library and collections are the pride of the State, and well deserve the fostering care of the legislature. We heartily unite in asking the further appropriation of $1,500 a year to the Society to enable its Board of Managers (of whom the Governor, Secretary of State, and State Treasurer are ex-officio members,) to meet the more pressing demands constantly made for increased means of literary, scientific, and useful investigation. The sum asked will never be grudged by our people for so worthy an object; for it would amount to only one cent to every eight of our population, or an increase of a cent to every $4.34 of the State-tax, according to last year's apportionment. And, as in duty bound, will ever pray.

