Page 1

Knoxville Tenn. Oct. 21th 1863 Mr John Hunter Dear Friend After Along Silence I Seat myself to to let you know that I Am well And harty hoping these few lines may find you All in the best of health All the boys of your Acquaintance is well And harty & Enjoying A Soldiers life As well As could be Expected for Some cause or other I have not had A letter from Any of you for About 3 month whether they was miscaried are you did not write I can not tell which one of the too. for my part for the last too months I had Know chance to write when I had A chance there was know mail going out that I cud Scend know dont you Are fully A were that Ever Since

Page 2

We left Danville Kentucky on the 17th Aug. that we have been Knocked Around like old Shoes we left Danville right in the hotest of the Season for A long And tedious march over the cumberland mountains over Some of the roughest roads I ever Saw in my life And I have Seen Some pretty rough Some places I Saw 12 mules to one wagon we had 500 wagons of A Supply train becides the regimental And brigade wagons. So you can have Some Idea how we got A long we traveled 75 or 80 miles with out See Any town At all Some places 7 And 8 miles without Seeing A drop of water when we would come to Any it would be A little Spring for to water A brigade of men out of. the country through the mountains is very thinly Settled

Page 3

A great many places it was not Settled At All when you would come to A house it was nothing A little log hut the people in the mountains are very poor maid more So by the rebels crossing taking Every thing they had it was nearly Imposible for us to get forage for the Amount of mules And horses that we had with us. on the morning of the 4th of September we get to Knoxville the first Union Infantry that was Ever in Knoxville we met with A harty welcom from the citizens for they had been used to the tyranny of the rebels Ever Since the war began. we had only been here too days when we was ordered to cumberland gap 60 miles from here the rebels had possession of the gap we expected to have A fight there but they Surrendered without fireing A gun we took Brigdier

Page 4

General Fraser And 2600 prisoners 13 pices of cannon besides other things to tedious to mention the prisoners was Scent to camp chase And we returned to Knoxville A gain we then took A trip out the rail road 80 miles then took A cross the country A 40 miles After the rebels we got with in too miles of the rebels camp and fortifycations we lay down to wait for the comeing morning for to Attact them but they got word of us being there And they left on double quick the next morning we Advanced but when we went to put our thumb on them they was not there we got 100 of them that was left on picket and did not get Away in time we then marched back to Greenville Greeneville And took the cars for Knoxville where we Are know in camp So you See that we have had A pretty busy time but we are haveing times pretty Easy at the present I think we will Stay here this winter we are building winter quarters here when we get them up we will have A nice place to Stay in this winter I was pleased to hear the way the Election went wonder what the copperheads think of their man by this time I think they will dry up know. As my paper is Scarce I will have to close give my best respects to all the famly please write Soon direct to Knoxville Tenn . First Brigade 3rd. division 23rd. Army Corps. Care of Capt Biddle , etc. truly yours, Wm. H. Dennis P.S. Mr. John Hunter

