Page 1

The Secretary for the department of War to whom, was referred the memorial of Anthony Walton White , Reports, That the memorialist states, that on his taking command of the cavalry in the Southern Army he found all the Quartermasters, Foragemasters and commissaries either captured by the English troops or destitute of resources to supply the men and horses under his command with provisions and forage. That to prevent adding to the calamities of war by obtaining by plunder, or the sword from the inhabitants, the articles

Page 2

articles essential to the military existence of the troops, he raised on private loan, one hundred and fifty thousand dollars for the support and comfort of his troops. That he placed the said sum in the hands of John Belfield , then a captain and paymaster in his regiment. That the said money was actually laid out for the use and benefit of said mean and horses, and no part of it applied to any private purposes whatever. That the said paymaster placed the vouchers for the said expenditure in the hands of Staff officers, as he met with them, conceiving they would be safer with the baggage in the rear of the army, than with the light horses, generally on the lines. That the said paymaster made a memorandum of the several quarter masters and commissaries

Page 3

commisaries names in whose hands he placed the said vouchers but he unfortunately mislaid the same, which leaves the Memorialist without relief unless he obtains it from the justice of his country The evidence adduced in support of the said statement is 1st: The receipt of Captain Belfield in the following words: "Halifax July 11th 1780. Received of Colonel Anthony W. White one hundred and fifty thousand dollars for the use of his regiment to be paid to them as he may please to direct." (Signed) J Belfield capt" 2dly: A certificate of the said Captain in the following words: "I do certify that, the One hundred and fifty thousand dollars put in my hands by Colonel White and for which I gave my receipt July 4th 1780. was applied to the use of his regiment and accounted for by me to some of the staff department

Page 4

department, I further declare that no part of it was ever applied, or made use of for him, or for any other private purposes whatever and that the regiment was in want and distressed for many necessaries when Colonel White put the above mentioned sum in my hands" (Signed) "J Belfield" Richmd Richmond : 2.d Feby: 1787 . 3dly: The deposition of Colonel White, dated the 15th of September 1788, as to the state of facts set forth in his memorial. It is to be observed that this claim was presented seasonably to the commissioner of army accounts, who did not conceive himself to be authorized to allow it. That on the 14th: of May 1788 the said Colonel White presented a memorial to Congress and that the same was referred to the board of Treasury [A] That

Page 5

That the said board reported to Congress which is herewith submitted [B] That the said report was referred to a committee of Congress, who reported there on the 8th of September 1788, but the said report does not appear to have been acted upon. [C] That although the general principles of said report appear to be judicious and well founded, yet it seems questionable whether they ought to apply decisively in the present case. For it appears to have been a rule in the settlement of the accounts of the late army, and more particularly in the accounts of the officers, who served in the southern department, that in case of a loss of vouchers, that the oath of the officers should be taken to substantiate their accounts. That this practice has been founded on the resolves of Congress, of June 3rd: 1784 entered on

Page 6

on the journals of that year, page 307 and 308. The the situation of the southern army in the year 1780, and the said practice, are in favor of the petitioner's claim being granted But it appears by the certificate of the commissioner of army accounts, herewith submitted, marked [D] ... that the general accounts of the memorialist are yet unsettled with the State of Virginia and chargeable to the United States remain unsettled. That it would be proper therefore, if Congress should grant the prayer of the memorialist, that the said sum should be passed to the credit of the memorialist at its specie value, on the final settlement of his public accounts, either with the State of Virginia, or the United States. All which is humbly submitted to the house of Representatives. HKnox Secry of War War Office, 14th Februray 1791

Page 7

with the State of Virginia and chargeable to the United States remain unsettled.

Page 8

2d Con: L 2d Sess: Report of the Secretary of War, on the Memorial of Anthony Walton White . 14th: Feburary 1791. 21st: Feburary 1791. Read & to lie on table

