Page 1

Knoxville, Tenn. July 11th 1864 (Head quarters 10th Mich Cav) Honl Amos Gould Dear Sir, Your favor of June 29th with duplicate to V.M. Genl Wm Hammond came duly to hand with the signature of Capt John H Knight, for all of which please receive my most sincere thanks. You doubtless soon after sending, received a few lines informing you of my good fortune in receiving a notice from the "Sec of War" at Washington that my muster was recognized. That settled the whole matter with Col Foote immediately on his return from Knoxville. It came in the night, with other official papers and so glad were the Officers present, that they at once deputied the Adjutant to go & wake me up, & hand me the paper with their united congratulations. Every Officer meeting me the next day rejoiced with me & for me. It certainly was a most happy circumstance, and as we are informed that the Paymaster was in Knoxville yesterday, we shall hope to see him here this week to pay this Regiment, and if he does

Page 2

Please remember me to all your families & when you write to your Brother Ebenezer give him my best wishes & regards.

Page 3

so, you may expect all my debts to be paid as soon thereafter as is possible to send the drafts. I want my wife to have the pleasure of paying them for it will do her so much good. Her heart will rejoice as well as mine. Among all the undesirable enemies in the world, debt is the worst, for it makes a man feel so helpless, & dependent, & mean. As for affairs in our Regiment nothing has been brought to a focus that I ahve heard of. I do not hear as much as I would, were I connected with the troubles. They are of a character which will permit no interference on my part, & as I have enough to do with my own work I am contented to make no enquiries. Yesterday I spent my second sabbath in the country and it was a very pleasant one. I gave in the morning by special request, an address to a union sabbath school, & preached in the afternoon. The people from every direction are urging me to come & preach, but my duties will not permit me to be often absent from camp. With many & sincere thanks to you I remain As Ever Truly Yours H Cherry.

Page 4

H Cherry July 11 1864

