Page 1

Dr. J.G.M. Ramsey, Knoxville -- Tennessee.

Page 2

Is there any Atlas of Tenn. by counties, or a large seale map? Conecting proof of my 4th Chapter. Madison, Aug. 2nd 1880. My Dear Dr. Ramsey -- This morning I recd. yrs. of the 29th. I am making some progress in getting light on the route -- but still there some dark passages in those mountain recesses. I am having the most uncertainty on the western part of the route. The evidence is that the Mountaineers crossed Yellow Mountain; but I am not clear as to all its locality: The principal Yellow Mtn., on the maps I have, extends nearly East & West -- and a little to its south in Bakersville; while on its north & round its East side runs North Toe river: And yet one account -- perhaps

Page 3

more than one -- mentions the Crab Orchard -- & Brights, as being on North Toe -- possibly at a point which they crossed North Toe before crossing over Yellow Mountain. I am a good deal puzzled, but hope light will yet dawn. About Tennesseeans at the Cowpens. There could have been embodied party -- it occurred at the wrong time in the year, I shd. think for the Wataugans to be so far away on the war path. Moses Shelby, (brother of Gc.) Jordan Roach & Alexander Greer were at the Cowpens -- & perhaps Evan Shelby Jr. -- I say perhaps, for I had it from Col. George Wilson, an old-time editor at Knoxville & elsewhere in Tenn. whom I met in his old age in Nashville in 1844. He had the fact from his father-in-law, Alexr. Greer that Roach & Evan Shelby were at the Cowpens -- no particulars; but as the obituary of Moses Shelby's death states that he was at the Cowpens, I thought perhaps Col. Wilson may have forgotten, & that Greer said it was Moses -- & Le Wilson, had forgotten. It is not impossible that both Evan & Moses were there. These few Tennesseeans must have been adventurers, seeking to share stirring events. I have only this to add -- that when you want to know any thing abt. Cowpens, & other Rev. events, in that quarter, you shd. turn your eyes Wisconsinward, not towards South Carolina. Ahem! -- Truly Yours, Lyman C. Draper

