Page 1

Maryville Jan. 23rd '65. O.P. Temple Esq. Dear Sir, I expected to have seen you here at court, and consulted with you, but being disappointed in this, I take the present opportunity to write youfor some advice, with respect to my situation, which appears to me, at least, to be gloomy enough. Last summer, as you are aware, I had the misfurtune to be burned out by rebels, losing my home, the greater portion of my furniture, all my Southern money, and every thing of any value carried off after being saved from fire: I should be more or less than human not to feel very bitterly towards the perpetrators of such an outrage committed by a drunken officer and without any provocation or shadow of excuse. Myself and sister have been living here thus fear, this winter, on the proceeds of the sale of a few articles saved, am bunking an officer or two while stationed here. We are obliged to make a change shortly: I have a little property in the North but it is in a condition, thus does not yield much income all my ready money being invested in Junitin (burnt, and put into Knox Co. bonds by my Husband (nearly $1000) - My sister has relations to whom she can go in the North which I think she will do. This does not apply to me as we are

Page 2

only stepsisters. I tell you all these particulars so that you can better understand what I say hereafter. One thing more under this head, there seems to be nothing in this place to do by which we can make our living teaching sewing or any thing of the kind- There are a few debts of my Husband amounting to about 150 dollars not more, which I should never have mentioned only under present circumstances but pain which I think Mr. Walker ought to settle: 30 dollars to Mr. R. Jackson of Athens 55 to Mr Bridges left unpaid for luck of the right kind of friends and funeral expenses. The Executor has not as yet but I feel a personal responsibility about them as a matter of honor. I owe nothing at all myself. The estate has a claim of about sixty dollars arg eunst Gramille Redder for the hire of a negro girl, which if sent to you, will you collect? He is living in Knoxville and ought to pay for it. The very liberal provision made for me, by my Husband being all gone, there remains nothing here, but the few little lots, and small parcels of land, scattered about town, all of which I consider liable to be taken finally for security debts - am I right in this? As near as I can tell, I ought to have about 2000 dollars in good funds in the South if not yet destroyed Would Gen. Carter allow me to go there on any business of this kind and return? I claim to be a quiet loyal citizen and am willing to have any enquiries made about

Page 3

my past course, of any suitable persons in this vicinity or give proper references. I know of a case or two of refusal of any leave to return but not exactly like my own - Will you confer with the proper one in this matter, and use your best-exertions in my behalf? In the present stage of affairs I cannot see what harm I would do if I would but others must judge and I am certain it is no pleasure trip. In case of a refusal, that is if I go I should not have permission to return, do you advise me to go? In case I went and the Federals get posession of the whole region or the place in which I am, which looks probable to me, what then? Could I not come back? I would go North from there but my sister thinks she cannot go alone. I simply want to go to confer with any member member of my Husbands family about some personal and private matters having no relation whatever to the war, to save myself from losses on account of lack of information about certain purposes. In case we go directly North when spring opens can we get any assistance about transportation to Neirhill or further? The next point is about funds: is it a long expensive trip = I have a few articles to sell and those Knox Co coupons can I get greenbacks for them? (without discount). Also 200 dollars in Southern money what can I get for this? I presume I need

Page 4

say nothing of any claims for damage as nothing is being paid - One suggestion about going South - If my interest and my own lot where my house stood can be taken for debt why what difference then to me? Taking every thing into consideration, I think I have presented to your mind about as gloomy a picture as you often see, and a case in which advice and assistance are needed if they can be had. Justice would require that my losses should be made good, from some question , but I cannot see from what source I could hope to obtain it. As soon as you find time to give the matter your attention, please let me hear from you - If I have omitted any particulers for you to know, if you mention it I will inform you. When you write please send by some reliable person, as I think we have no mail- Respectfully yours Mary L.T. Wallace Mrs Mary L T Wallace A Feb 1st 1865

