Page 1

Charles Pettit Esqr. Presidt. of The Insurance Office of No. America Philadelphia Septr 24th 1799 E & J Perot E & J. Perot 24 Sept.

Page 2

Ansd. 15 warled. Danish B & Oor More -- as hestates it

Page 3

Abington 24 Septemr. 1799 Gentn. We want to make Insurance at and from St. Thomas to Leghorn upon the Brig Triton Capt. Andreas Frederickson & Cargo. You will Oblige us by mentioning by the return of the bearer what will be the premium say, 20000 Dollars to be Insured on both The following information is given us in a letter Dated St. Thomas 25 August 1799. on which Day the Triton began to take her Cargo on board in which there will be nothing counterband and expected she would sail within the next fortnight. "This vessel is Philadelphia built of Live oak &cedar by the famous Penrose formerly belonged to John Crag _ and was insured at your Office in 1795 by James Fard, and in 1796 by Messieurs Odier and Bosquet Brothers her other Insurances have been made in Copenhagen she has been regularly in the Streights Trade from hence ever since has been taken examined and suffered to pass _ by French & English and was once carried into there detained a long while and after the Strictest Investigation was released, she has had the same Captain and almost the same Crew for several years, the first ever since the purchase was made of her from Mr. Crag. The papers under which she now sails are not of the West Indies, but from Copenhagen with the most ample Certificates of

Page 4

Of Neutrality certified and confirmed at different periods by Consular Signatures. The Triton moreover Sails well and is in Excellent Order. As the papers were originally taken out and have been regularly kept in the Name of Mr. John Dunlop of St. Croise it has been thought adviseable to continue them the same, tho: Mr. Dunlop has sold out and I have become the purchaser it is with Mr. Dunlop's approbation that they should be thus continued " The Gentleman for whom this Insurance is intended to be made wishes it to be made as explicit as possible and says of late Policies have been filled up with the following conditions. Vos " That the Captains Protest be considered Sufficient proof of Loss and the policy Sufficient proof of Property" In order that we may meet his wishes let us know if you will Comply with it in case we write you to make the Insurance. We are respectfully Your Assured Friends Elliston & John Perot Charles Pettit Esqr. President of the Insurance Co. of No. America

