Page 1

The following text is a continuation of the fourth page of the letter. Our son grows very fast and takes a great deal of nursing - Jimsey is climbing up my chair and says - Send Jimseys love to Auntey Peggy The preceding text is a continuation of the fourth page of the letter. Mrs. Peggy A. Ramsey Near Knox-Ville By Mr. Mitchel Sepr. 18th 99

Page 2

Mecklenberg September 18th 1799 My dear Sister, I wrote a letter some time ago to you, but missed the oppotunity of sending it, I will send it along now. There was an opportunity of writing by Esquire Harris, but we were over the river on visit to our relations, about that time and missed it also - It is a long time since I have received a word or a line from you, My dear Sister would it be to much, to expect to see you here this winter we all earnestly desire it and I think sincerely you aught to come for your own sake, and the sake of your family. What is property, convenience, or life itself without health and happiness, Brother Billy wants very much to go and see you

Page 3

and would go if he could get a man to take the charge of the farm, but he has been trying and cannot get any - Dady has had publick business to do that has confined him at home all summer and is oblidged to be at Salisbury Court this month - I hope you will not wait to see any of your relations, but fix up and start immediately, before the cold weather sets in, and stay all winter with us and I hope you will return home in the Spring healthy and vigorous as you used to be, both in body and mind, and then I am sure you will do more good for yourself, your family, and the world in one year than you can do at present in half a dozzen - Do pray my dear Brother and

Page 4

Sister think seriously of these things and do what appears to be your duty - Mr. Wallis was taken sick about two weeks ago down at Providence he is removed up to his fathers sister and the children are there now the last account Mr. Wallis was getting better - It is very healthy at present in this neighbourhood though in some parts of this country it is very sickly - Mr. Caldwell is at a singing school this day I suppose he will write this nights to you - I will conclude with repeating my desire that you would seriously think of spending the winter in this country I remain your affectionate Sister Abigail B. Caldwell To Mr. and Mrs. Ramsey

