Page 1

Nashville, Tenn., Nov. 11th, 1874 My very dear sir: I shall not attempt to tell you of the gratification I experienced upon reading your letter of the 2nd inst. , received on the 4th. To have such a cordial endorsement from the head of our Society, (honored more than most men in various ways,) is indeed a great pleasure. I fear now, as I did from the first, that the plan may not be practicable. But more hereafter. We are, as a body, crawling now. Our walking days will come. In regard to the publication of Mr. Hoyt ' s address, let me say, that, from the night of its delivery, on the 6th ult. , I thought it ought to be printed in pamphlet form, in good style. I think so yet. However, we want him to deliver it in two, three, or more places, first, and then have it printed. King's Mountain was a battle of too much importance, and its

Page 2

results too far reaching, to permit it to go into oblivion. And future historians must be taught to give it its proper prominence. I concur with you, fully, in regard to a medium of communication, for the Society, but cannot get a plan worked out in my mind, to make a successful journal, or paper. Inquiries in relation to such special publications, cool my ardor , somewhat. The Medical Journal published here, edited by Dr. Bowling and others, does not meet with sufficient favor to pay expenses. Its ability, and its importance to the medical profession, are unquestioned. The Teachers ' Journal, edited by Col. Fleming and others, relying upon the vast number of common school and other teachers in the State, meets with indifferent success. These examples stagger me. And yet, some means ought to be devised, by which we could reach the public ear, and command public respect. Do you know Gov. Porter? I do not. He ought to be written to on behalf of our Society. he was elected an active member, at our last meeting, and, the very day he was elected Governor. Our meeting was well attended, when it is taken into account, that it was general election day. Twelve members present. Did you see the accounts published in our city papers? Very truly yours, Anson Nelson The following text is a continuation of the second page of the letter. Mrs. Nelson joins me in kind regards to Mrs. Ramsey and your daughters. Present me kindly to Col. Henderson, when you see him. I hope you will soon be restored to good health. I send you some stamps, knowing it is in convenient for you to get out to attend to such small matters. The preceding text is a continuation of the second page of the letter.

