Page 1

Nashville Ten Sept 15th My Dear Sister I received your very kind letter and was sorry to hear that Ma and Sue had been sick. I hope however they will soon be restored to their usual health. I am glad that you all have gone to house keeping. I am now satisfied (from what I hear almost daily from Knoxville) that you have acted wisly in remaining where you are. The outragious sciens taht are constantly transpiring there is disgraceful to humanity and civilisation and is almost beyond description I however will be compelled to be there the third Monday in Oct I do not anticipate the trip

Page 2

with pleasure. I have no fears at the result of my case - but the outside feeling is not so good but you need give yourself no uneasiness about my safety as I think I will come out with safety. I also received Papas letter a five days ago enclosing me a copy of his application for pardon - As I had written to him about my arrest and return from Knoxville I have not yet answered it. I think he need have no fears I think President Johnson will pardon him and all others soon. I was highly pleased with his speech - he made before the Southern delegation you must get it and read it - he will come out all right as I knew he would - he will be the best friend the

Page 3

South has and it becomes us all cordially to sustain him inorder that he may be able to break down Black republicanism. I will write to Judge Patterson to day and see if he cant get the President to order the return of your farm without you visiting Knoxville - if so we can rent it out for you. I am glad to hear that the young folks are disposed to marry I hope they may all be able to find suitable companions I would like very much to be there and form some acquaintances with the ladies - but that is impossible. I will have to do my courting by proxy and let you act as my agent though I must first get through all my troubles and then try and make some money to support

Page 4

some good lady with - but if she had the money I think I would be a very good person to take care of it for her as I have had much experience in having money and not having it. I would have sent you my Photograph with pleasure but my practice as yet is quite limited and it takes all I make to keep up my necessary expenses I will however try and send you one soon. Say to Papa that if he has my pocket book containing my notes - and has an opportunity of sending it - to send it to me - perhaps there may be some of them that I can collect or make something out of them. I received a letter from Uncle Arthur a few weeks ago - he is at Austin - his family is well but he has lost a great eal of property though not as much as the rest of us - he speaks of moving to Arkansas - When I write to him I will advise him to come here I received a letter from my Dear Sister Margaret J. (she is well) a few days ago. She sustains me in all my troubles when I am at Knoxville with a devotion and affection that is unequaled and unprecidented by a Sister I dont see how I could get along without her - She (while I lay in the jail) was there both late and early Uncle Williams has been very sick for the last week - but is some better to day - the rest are all well. Remember me kindly to all - will be pleased to hear from you all at any time Yours truly J.C. Ramsey

