Page 1

Mr Reynolds Ramsey Gettys Town Adams County Pennsylvania. By the kindness of Mr M. Fisk The following text, along with a list of figures, appears on the first page of the letter. It does not appear to be related to the content of the letter. Wast unto him that can keep you from falling and present you blamless before the Thron of his glorey is the Constant prayer of yr loving parents This preceding text appears on the first page of the letter. It does not appear to be related to the content of the letter.

Page 2

Swan-pond April 6th 1803 Hond Parents By Mr Fisk I undertake to tell you that by the Goodness of Our God we now are all in good health, The children have had the hooping Cough Thro, the Winter but since the weather began to alter the all appear to mend - Brothers Family were well last Saturday - Sister and the children have very well recovered of the measles, this complaint has been very generally thro this Country, and have been all thro my neighborhood, but have not yet come into my Family; we have been in daily expectation, and have tryed to prepare for them coming - I have been now almost two weeks at Court, a few minutes ago I arrived at home, and have to go back in the morning to Court If I am alive and well - We have a backward Spring - tho very comfortable at present - I know not what more to write you at present - I cannot say any thing positive about my going to see you - but this, that whenever Providence intends to let me go, he will open a Door for my going, and then in his Strength, and with his assistance

Page 3

assistance I will go - I have a curiosity to know when your Courts sit in Gettys Town, that is at any future time I can go there, I may fix it so as to be at one of your Courts - please to write more frequently by post than you have formerly done as that is a good channel of communication - I received your letter by Colo McClellan - I expect the bearer will call upon you, he has a long Journey before him after he gets to you perhaps a few days ust will be serviceable to him and hope Mrs Ramsey would have wrote to Ma, or Sis, but she was prevented by her eyes being sore, occasioned by a slight cold she has contracted since I went to Court - But she wishes me to present to you all, her most affectionate and dutiful regard - May the best blessings of Heaven rest upon you my much esteemed Parents My Dear Sister and her dear children Oh! that my eyes could now be blessed with the Seeing all of you. Pray for us - I trust we have a Disposition in all things to live as becometh the professed followers of a One crucified, but now exalted Redeemer Farewell F.A. Ramsey N.B. Please to remember us to Aunt Gettys and if there is any body else amongst you that cares any thing about us - mention us affectionately to them also - I will try the ensuing summer or fall to go and see you if you will agree all to accompany me home - Colo McClellan this day requested me to remember him to you all -

