Page 1

Birch Elliss Post Provost Marshal Office Chattanooga Tenn

Page 2

Knoxville Jul, 1st 1863 Friend Ellis Yours of June 11th with letter inclosed from Mr J. Silsby was received today. It must have been detained at the Battery, as it evidently went there for it was handed to me by one of the boys, C Darling, who is in the hospital here, he brought a batch of letters for us all. Thinking it interesting to you how I came to be in the military prison I will give you a new addition of Battery "C"s history. On the 14th of May the Capt ordered three men to wit Mooney Alsop & Ed Rogers to be bucked & gagged the were left that way for Eleven hours when Boyers completely gave out,

Page 3

& to save him from a horrible death the Sargt of the guard - Morey had to cut him loose. This exited the men & some 30 or 40 went to the place where the other two were yet confined, with a determination to release them - The first asked Morey to release them he refused but made no resistance they were then cut loose & taken to their quarters "with a yell." By this time the Capt. got wind of it and he appeared with side arms making, to tell the truth, a very rediculous individual of him self, soon Everything was quiet & the excitement subsided. The next morning, Act Corpl. Meark Lewis Parv Chauncey Baker, Ed Mood & Hans Kittles on were arrested as the Leaders in the affair, wherever they took no more of an active part than the rest. The following day The following text is a continuation of the third page of the letter. Address in care of Sergt Reutan Box 11 Knoxville - thats sufficient The preceding text is a continuation of the third page of the letter.

Page 4

Kegge Lloyd Rittman & myself were arrested and at noon we were sent to Knoxville & turned over to the military Prison - It was at first a mistery to me, what I was arrested for, as I had taken great foams to keep out of the whole affair, I was well aware that the Capt would ask for nothing better then to get such a "hold" on me, you know what for - It is now nearly four weeks since I had my trial & it was then for the first time that I learned what I was charged with. It was this - for telling Ed Hewilt in March last at Chatta. that the Captain had used Jim Lloyd mean & that I was going to prefer those charges again The charge was "conduct to the prejudice of good order &c telling the above to Enlisted man; He had two more charges against me - for preferring

Page 5

charges against him "outside of the proper channell," but they were stricken out by the Judge Advocate So I was tried on the first. Hegge was also tried for telling P.B. Nelson In the eventful night "that the boys did not go to work right they should have blown out the light and than pitched into the Captain" he told Nelson so in confidence and that mean specimen of humanity reported it Wood was tried. When the court was broke up and here the other three are without a trial & probably never will get one. Wood had Killabee to swear against him & he testified to a pack of lies of course - We are expecting our sentence every day, think mine will be light if anything. Led whom the Captain had an old gruge against, is charged with falsly accusing the Captain of knowing him to be excused by the Dr. a mere triffle His object was to send us with them in some way. I had a long talk with the Ring before my trial came up, he tried to withdraw every charges altogether but it was two late - Lloyd dodged them by going to the hospital Lev & Hegge avalse at the Hospital - I shall not send this untill tomorrow may I will get my sentence to day but if I do not I will let you know but let this not keep you from answering this, all send their respects Yours GA Peltzer

