Page 1

Near Jonesberough Oct. 20th 1863 Dear Wife I have again Seated My Self to Write You a few Lins It is all the Sadisfaction I See. is When I am tring to write you a histry of my tryals. I rote you a Letter Last Sondy. I Studyed all Sonday about home. If I New You all was Safe but You live where You will be In danger all the time. We had orders to be ready this morning to move at five O clock we had ever thing packed up ready to Start and the order was Countermanded. And now I dont Know When we will move. we may move in the morning but I cant tell the dispach came in this morning that the Rebels had captured 2 Companies of the Second Ten Regment & I expect It Is Sow. I think we will be ordered down to Greenville Greeneville in a few days I dont want to go below

Page 2

Greenville Greeneville for I Seen more trouble when I was down at Lick Creek Bridge than I have Saw in five Years to think I was So Close home and them Low down Infurnel black thieveish murel Clan was Stealing thru our country I recond Mis Mary Chapman was very well pleased when they come back If I come back down there Soon again I will make that big Eye browed Bill Chapmond run faster than he did before, and then let Mary Say I will get My Self in a scrape after I went to Greenvill I was acting as provost I had sent for some four or five in that country. If pleas Williams had come up there I would mad him, walked a rale for something We taken that Thief of a Thomas Easterly down to Knoxville & we lost the papers that we had taken the Evedence down on and there was no profe aganst him and they releast him

Page 3

but we are not done with him yet. There will be a Strating up of things Em I am a frade they have taken your Leather that I got If they have I will be down before Long and I will have as much more. We have bad Newes in our company we have Lost four out of our company I will give you there Names. Thomas Easterly David Canon, Daniel Cntraell, Alexander Etherton. You dont no how It hearts me to heare of one of my boys dieing but we all have to die and It looks Like this ware is going to distroy all of us. but I hope for the better, and trust in one hoo rules all. Oh that the time would come when we all could be together again in peace and harmny. I cant Stand It of a Sondy I now how Lonsome You are If I could be at home and go to meeting and be with you I would give all the wourld

Page 4

but we will have to bare It I will have to bring my few Lins to a close I told You I would write as often as I could and I am going to do It and I want you to do the same write and send your letter to Greenville Greeneville and It will come to the regment give my Respects to all of the family. good by Your affectionate husband R A Ragan Oh that this war would end And I could return to my home And the balance of my days I will spend Let them be Short or Long I want You to write me whether you got all of them things I sent you I am going to send you 50 cts mone in silver. I want you to take care of it I have not drawed any money yet but I will before Long. I rote this letter a few days ago and Last night Robert Kelly & Georg Fresh & Peat Lovett came up But Debusk never came. I thought you owt to Rote to me tel Debusk to come

