Page 1

Dr J.G.M. Ramsey Charlotte N.C.

Page 2

Nashville Ten Oct 12th Dear Sir I received your letter Mas and Lizzies a day or two ago and posponed answering until I heard whether I would have to go to Knoxville I received this morning a letter from Uncle Dreadrick stating that the Attorney General had agreed to have my cases continued until the next Term of the Court waiving my appearance at this Term - So you see that I am released from taking the trip I have so much dreaded. I have now not the slightest fears of my cases as all will be quiet at the the next Term of the Court I will flank them badly

Page 3

when that time comes. All of my friends here when I was released advised me to leave on account of these cases. I knew that I would in all probability be arrested - it mattered not where I would go and I disliked to be a fugitive from justice or rather from persecution - I told my friends that I would have to meet the cases some time or nother and I might as well meet them now as any other time - and while I appreciated their advice I had concluded to stand my ground and fight them out - I think I was right about it. I received a letter from Margaret Jane a few days ago - she was well and things were more quiet - but a large number of citizens were leaving - the Campbells

Page 4

of the Fork had to leave and a number of good Union men. As I am released for some time about my cases - I will now turn my attention to the investigation of your property I would have liked very much to have examined the Records of your cases and to have examined for myself the exact condition of yours and the rest of your childrens property - (for I have not yet understood the condition of the cases to form a correct legal opinion of your defences or right to recover) this I can not do - but will have to rely upon the opinion of other Lawyers I expect to write in a few days to Judge Brown and get him to examine correctly all the principles involved in your cases and also to consult Col Nelson

Page 5

as to his opinion as to your right to recover - if they should think you can recover. I think they should be the proper ones to undertake the business - as I have confidence in their judgment. If they think you can recoversuits should be instituted at once. I fear however that they will be long and tedious suits - but still if their is any possibility of a recovery - it is worth a trial - Sneed has commenced suits for the recovery of his property - I think his chances are better than yours - as the principles are different and on a better basis. I wrote you soon after my return from Washington Did you get the letter - All are well at Uncle Williams - Love to all - will be pleased to hear from all of you at any time Yours truly J.C. Ramsey

