Page 1

This will certify that when in 1851 or about that year I conveyed in fee simple to six of my elder children as I then thought I believed a one sixth part each of such of my realty as I then purposed to subdivide & distribute to each of them then arrived at mature age I allotted & conveyed to our daughter Mrs. E.A.R. Breck a widow who had returned from Kentucky to our home at Mecklenburg, the part of stone house plantation I intended for her -- being the western half on division of said Stone House place sometimes called Swan-pond. In making the division between the two children I purposely ran the line from an old tree marked & stationary not far from the north west corner of what was formerly known as Tommy Guns meadow, there to & up the centre of the old ditch a nearly south inverse to the Bridge across the ditch, on the Boych Ferry road from the centre of the Bridge the dividing line continued with the centre of the same ditch the same course ward course as far as the ditch had even been dug to quagmire & swamp which was impassable & then to a point on Scotts line, there taking Scotts line westwardly. The ditch was the real division line as far as it could be traveled & the same course of the ditch till it stretch Scotts line. Mrs. Breck owned all the land west of this line as did F.A. Ramsey all the land

Page 2

east of it both north & south of the county road. Both of them recognized the ditch as the division line & so did the Tenants of each up to the fall (Sep, 1863 when I went south with the C.S. Army. When I returned from the South in 1872, these boundaries were still observed by Spurgeon & all others as far as known to me & I in the spring of 1872 acting as her agent rented for her all the land land west of the Bridge & south of the country road. I think such will also be Testimony of all my sons. Also Orton Vanity Anderson & perhaps other neighbors will say the same. Witness my hand & seal April 7, 1882. J.G.M. Ramsey. seal Boundaries of E.A.R. Brecks Land April 7, 1882

