Page 1

Greeneville May the 17 1865 O P Temple Esq: Dear sir I am informed that one D L Rogers filed a bill against me and others, in the chancery court at Kingston, Rogers charges that he bought of me a negro woman at the price $2250. on the 17 of April 1863, and, at the time he was ignorant of the existence of an act of congress (17 of July 1862) giving freedom to slaves (The act provides that slaves of disloyal persons found on territory thereafter captured or occupied by the Federal Army should be deemed captures of war, and deemed free from service) and that on the advent of the Federal Army his negro walked off claiming her freedom. He charges that I am disloyal, a non resident of the State of Tennessee, a soldier in the Rebel army and that no consideration was received by him for his $2250, and prays for Judgement for his $2250, with interest & C.

Page 2

In answer to said charges, I sold D L Rogers a negro girl, and he paid me $2250 in Confederate treasurey notes, I thought I was the legal owner of said girl, and if she was free by any act of Congress, then I was ignorant of the fact. I am informed and believe that the said Rogers tried to sell said girl after the Federals came into country. I have not been out of the State of Tennessee since the 14 of January 1864, but have been in said State all the time since, and have boarded with loyal persons all the time, which I can prove by as good loyal citizens as lives in Greene County; It is true I have not lived in Roane County for the time mentioned for the following Reasons : I came to Greeneville on the 14th of Jan 1864 verry low with a chronic disease and was not able to goe home for near twelve months, and when I recovered so I could goe, I learned that D L Rogers and some others, as contemptable as he was, was threatening my life, and making grave charges against me which was false, and I knew if I went home that any man that would bring

Page 3

such a suit as Rogers had, woud do any other mean act, and that my life amid person was not save in a community when such bad men lived, and therefore I have remained in the County of Greene. I have never belonged to the rebel Army, all of which I am able to prove. I have learned that you have been employed to attend to said suit for me and Gallahar & Browder, and I want you to attend to it for me, I have never seen a copy of the bill, and if you have a copy I would be glad you would send it to me and give me all information necessary. You will please watch D.L. Rogers for he may try to indict me in the Federal court. I have taken the amnesty oath, You will please advise me from time, to time what is necessary for me to do, you can write and direct to my address at greeneville. I remain yours truly. W L Headrick

Page 4

W L Headrick of Roane Ans 18, May 1865 Wants answer to Bill at Kingston

