[Front Cover][Front Cover Verso]Mar. 15, 1913. SaturdayMr. Karstens Watter and Archdeveon
          arrived at Nenana 9 or 1 a.m. Had lunch and arranged fright to start in trip Sunday. Wrote few letters. Rhumatis m better.Mar 16 SundayHad Early siwill and after breakfast
          packed sleds. Did not attend 11 or am.
          service wrote letters one to Bishop promised another on my return also to Miss Groves and
            Ceelia. Had lunch left on our journey
          about 300 p.m. Met Mr. Williams just before reaching Fishers roadhouse.
          Archdeacon brought 3 dogs from Mr. Loyd, paid $100.00 for them. Mr. Williams attended to
          the affair for him. Mr. W. gave me a letter frompapa and one from M. Bettiehes stayed
          over night at Fishers a assorted freight
          and loudr sleds. Mr. W. brought horse to
            MnanaMar 17 MondayLeft Fishers 6 a.m. dogs travled well.
          Arch deacon very nervous, reached 30 mile house 700p.m. other teams
          there with 3 men u minse meat pie was
            authey coned think of. Arch deacon
          cooked dinner. Every time he wantes water some one had drunk it. Slept on floor with
            spure bows. Very comfortable.Mar 18 TuesdayLeft 30 mile house on the Nenana at 830 am reached Knight's Road
          house at 7 am. At Stud cooked. Stopped in
            Cahir. They called on us Mr & Mrs
            A. and spent the evening. Boys read. Had
          good travling all day saw bast sight of
          Nenana hills at the 30 mi house. Slept comfortably and the Knights were very kind to
          us.Mar 19 WednesdayLeft Knights at 930 a.m. had good trail up the Toklat to the 12 mi house where we huiched "The Home Caban" had big open fire place. Travled up river
          to the clear watertributary and on the right hand side and
          travled on to the "Crooked Creek Cabin" Had good trail with exception of some
          water at the mouth. The cabin was 26 mi from Knights slept on bunks. A.d. stuck chosse his bed and slept on sticks and had to get up. Had good stove and dry
          wood.Mar 20 ThursdayLeft "Crooked Creek" and travled up Clear creek lots of glare ice & some
          water sleighs broke down. Loads of tarmigan. ate lunch at 12 mile house a few sweeds were there atMoon light Cabin." Travled on to the mouth of Myrtle Creek an travled to its head.
          had most wonderful view of the Mountain from the SUmmit between Myrtle & Willow Creek
          came down Willow to Moose Creek and down it tahont two miles to Spmee
          Creek Cabin, stayed there Wed. night. Very
          cold. but comfortable opened quilts from sach.
            Tood trail over Summit all day.Mar 21 Friday - "Good Friday"Reached Eurcka at noon. Came down Moose
          12 miles stayed Hamelton's cabin. lwod
            stores. Very comfortable cached all fright there Had service & Litney in the after noon. Baked
          biscuits boys went on the hill for wood up to this time we had had trails & weather
          for beyond our expectation a made splendid
          time. This cabin was our head quarters while freighting from Diamond.Mar 22 & Mar 23 Saturday- "Easter Eve" & Easter
          day.Left curiked had very good trail down
          Moose Euck some water & glare ice fom 15 mi. Ate lunch at 9 mi. cabin Mr. Nelson was there went over land about
          4 mi from Moose to Glacier City where we spent Easter Sunday Had four more visitors had
          service. I started hymn 12 "Jesus Christ is risen today" Very high. Arch deacon
          sang bose. I got mixed in the reading of the Psalms & The "Passover." to my
          sorrow A d. S. preached very mipnsai
          sermon on the flowers. What they mean to man Even the Crows that is fond in the early Spring the pleasure it gives to
          manand its value and the love it flows evita in man. Had dining table there ate dinner
          had prayers slept in Spring beds.Mar 24 Monday. cloudy.We all broke trail ten miles across country to Diamond- had very good trail reached there
          late in the after noon snowed a little. There we had a cabin and stove. Remuved our gruh supply. Left gnih then
          for our trip out.Mar 25 Tuesday.We returned to Glacier City but in late had some Snow Boys had school Esias eyes inflamed. Had more visitors. Prayers
          ond to bed.Mar 26 WednesdaySnowed all day. boys made round trip to Diamond City. Ad. S. & I made dough-nuts. Mr.
          K. worked on creeper heals. Boys returned late. had Read some Prayers and retired.Mar 27 Thursday.Stod snowed several inches of snow and
          was all over cast. Boys made another round trip to Diamond City. Esias stayed at home. Boys returned lately Mr. K.
          finishes enipers.Bors got in some word.Mar 28 FridayWe repayed half of our freight to a point
          about three miles above the 9 mile house today and returned to Glacier. Had very wet
          trail. Reached Glacier about 6 pm. turned colder wet cold feet. Walter & Esias started supper. Prayers & retired for
          the last night therMar 29 SaturdayLeft Glacier at 900 a.m. with good wishes
          from our friends then. Travled slowly and broke our own trail until wereached Nilsons trail that he had made yesterday. I stayed with sleigh to time there on and wi had it up set while going over an ice bridge at Sulphur Spring on
          The Moose waltir jumped in to save the
          sleigh and losted his small show shoes. Reached Eureka a 900 p.m. Had late supper and
          prayers and went to bed.Mar 30 Sundaystayed over there all day. I made 200 biscuits. The boys returned to the cache and
          brought all the fright to Eureka. Mr. K. prospected as far as the lake and returned with
          Fritz. He stayed and told us funny stories of his experience in his domestic correring train apprentis ship Told us he punched
          the lady Mrs Rothchild in the ribs an said "Did you ever get aft?" Fritz stayed quite late and then had
          prayers and went to bed.Mar 31 MondayBoys took load over to little cabin 1 1/2 miles from McKinley Fork. I went up to McCringals 1300 ft above Eureka. Mr K. & Arch
          D stayed up there all night last night. Returned about 3 pm. today and made ready to leave
          in the morning.Apr 1 - 1913 - TuesdayThis is wash & boke dery we brought a
          little sourdough sourdough down from McGlabin & baked 6 lofes of bread washed
          underware & sox Boys fulled Ad by tying
            "muck" up & said he was butApril 2 1913Tuesday, WednesdayLeft Eureka for a camp on the clear water, a tributary of McKinley Fork. ate lunch at the
          little cabin. Had bad trail Pitched camp 1/2 a mile from McK. Fork temporary expect to go
          through the canon tomorrow and pitch camp
          on timber line. Camp tonight was very nice Mr K. angry with ads. fair weather today but
          very heavy trailApr 3 Wednesday ThursdayWe moved forward today through the clear-water canon very bad trail full of potholes but
          safely through the Mcanfted &
          dangerous places and pitcher carry in the Spmee, facing the big mountain. I
          I have thought of Rosa many times, as this is her 25 birthday. Have had quite a headache
          today.Apr 4 Friday.Boys went back to small cabin after freight as we have had some wind The trail is very
          heavy. I prospected for some wood on the hill found a few. Mr K did like wise. Boys Mr. K. took gun hunted caribou. Mr Stuck grew
          uneasy went to meet boys and Mr. K went to meet him. all arrived at 10 p.m. had supper
          & got to bed at 200 a.m. Boys tried to bring whole cache & air left part at the
          Mouth of Clear water.Apr. 5 SaturdayAd went to meet John to get field glasses Mr. K. went to look for caibou Boys went to
          finish bringing freight Also got stove at MondayMndy Creek Cabin. Arch deacon & I went
          up on the hill and had a noble view view of the
          Mountain. Mr. K returned at 8.p.m.Apr 6 SundayBoys & dogs all had a good rest. Mr. K. started off early hunting. We had service
          & lunch and the boys went in several directions hunting all after noon. Arch d. walked
          over the hill to near the willow cahce. Mr. K. snow shoed a trail over. Had dinner at 8
          p.m.Apr 7 Monday.Boys too first load over to W Willow
          cache. Ad Stid accompanyed them and took
            axe to mipoint trail but was not needed. They cached their load on the cache that Lyod built in 1810. They
          returned in after noon Mr K fried snow
          shoes.Apr. 8 TuesdayBoys cut wood preparaton for removal tomorrow Mr. K cut fixed snow shoes. boys we all sang
          old songs I made bread. I spilled sour dough and was given the now "Sourdough Kid"Apr 9 WednesdayMr. K. & Johnnie went forward with a load this morning & left Walter & Esias behind to finish hauling wood.
          It was 3 pm before this prov was finished so we
          loaded our sleds and moved forward also with the tent etc. Load was top heavy & trail
          bad. After having passed the willow cache about 1 1/2 mi. we met Mr. K & J returning
          to meet us. We pitched camp in the willows there. Mr. K had killed a caribou it was quite
          late before we got to bed but it was a very comfortable camp.Apr 18 ThursdayBoys went for load Mr. K & J went ahead to
          find location for carry. Ad. S. & I broke chuip & walked ahead Found place for carry at 4000 feet altitude and Ad.
          S. & Mr K pitcher while John & I returned to former camp & brought a load.
          Boys want to wel clear water carry for load of
          wood this morning and got in to new bose
            sanp &Johnnie's home" about supper time. Low & uncomfortable
          camp.Apr 11 FridayBoys went for load of wood at Clear water Mr K worked on creepers & snowshoes. Mr K
          & I went on hill after the caribou he killed. Returned late & had supper. Boys
          returned with neros that then were Qudrans that had followed us from
          Diamond & told of their evond. Boys
          went to bed early. I wrote some letters, one to Rosa & RoyThought of Bfa a great deal.Apr. 12 SaturdayBoys went for load of wood at Clearwater early. Mr K worked on creepers and I did some
          cooking The Minchuanmine Indide caine
          about noon. Ad. S. baptised John baby and
          immediately married him to Abhie There was
          also another John with them Boys returned & Indians returned to their camp on the
          clear water just where ours was. They promised to come back on Sunday Boys returned for
          another load at 9 p.m. We expect them back for breakfast. S I wrote to Mildred & Bob & Mr. W.illiams.Apr 13 SundayJohnnis & Esias returned with their
          loads of wood about 9 am. Walter went on this hill to hunt and returned with word that he
          had killed a sheep. Fired eight shots. Did not clean the sheep. Had Service in the evening
          late The Indians did not return to our camp.wifeApr 14 MondayWalter said ahead of caribou and Mr K Esias & Walter went for them Esias killed three
          and said that he wounded several. They hauled
          Mr. K. cleaned them over this after nowon one
          Johnnie & I went down after the sheep that Walter killed. Returned about 6 p.m. and
          had supper.Apr 15 TuesdayBoys with Ad. S tuck went over to the
          cache on the Muldrow Glacier and with a load Esias saw the Glacier and they returned for
          lunch. Ahe and split woodhauled willows this afternoon. Esias will
          leave for Nenana it in the morning. We boiled
          some meat & made pemmican balls by cutting it up in bitts and adding salt & pepper
          and melted butter to make it heasiveApr 16 WednesdayUp Early Esias made ready while boys split wood. And left about 9 am with mail ite expecting to reach his destination in four or
          five days and of I gave him gruh accorting by. Boys took load to Glacier
          carry and Mr. K & I burpeaterly the
          glacier some four miles. found ice mound that close by resembled a tent and in approaching
          it crossed our first wide crevass. Could not satie by ourselves as to wheatter it was the tent covered with ice tv notMr K wust
          bothered him dreadfully returned lateApr 17 ThursdayGot up late as we did not get to bed very early the last night Mr. K wust hurt
          very much. I boiled meat and made pemmican balls and five snow shoes & crupen. repacked sacks and made ready to move
          carry tomorrow.Apr 18 FridayRose early this morning and packed sleds to move to the camp on the Glacier. Took both
          teams and followed our old trail over the summit at the head of Cache Creek, and up the
          glacier then prospected a trail until we reached some large crevasses. We turned back and
          came down the steep slope & pitched camp opposite two hanging glaciers at an altitute
          of 7600 feet as nearly as can be estimated by the aniroyd. This camp we judge to be some 5 or 6 miles from on bosecarry on Cache CreekApr 19 SaturdayBoys returned for a load of wood last night while Mr K & J pitched camp. The boys returned today after freight made 2 trips
          while weMr K Ads. & I prospected a trail
          Ad.S. through his desire to display his knowledge & authortory which he bid not happen to hove that treid wen took Mr K place & lost our
            fuly good pole.We returned to carry & Mr K took ridge pole & trind it down to sound with.Apr 20 SundayBoys continued to have wood and freight Ad.stuck Mr. K. & J prospected up the glacier to an altitude of 9000 feet
          returned by six pm. had service and
          retired tired & sleepy.Have been thinking of Home, MA Bah a
          great deal the last few days.Apr 21 MondayMr. K suddenly seized in growing whiskers. I picked there nit aid My stomach bring out of order because nansiated & woozy and in the after noon Mr K
          was sick. Stomach out of order & eyes hurt very badly spent the day in eainp.Walter went to base camp & did not
          return until night.Apr 22 TuesdayElondey Walter had first 4 penci ec on the rope crossing crevasses did not
          go as far as we went last Sunday. Very soft day. Snow bridges were very werk.Apr 23 WednesdayGot up at 315p.m. were pante delayed by thermos bottles etc and left at 730 a.m. followed old trail
          to to end and ventured on to 10300 feet.
          Grew very cold had had some large crevasses. Got good view from that point of Parkins Call camp also where we might pitch ours.
          Walter went with us. We built quite a snow
          bridge over a crevass 15 ft wide and bottom-less on the sides of a snow mound over which
          we built the bridge.Apr 24 ThursdayWalter went down to base camp last night and returned this mon with Johnnie with two loads of wood. and went back to to the
          glacier cache for another load. Have been thinking of Kenneth a great deal today. Returned
          at Supper time and we after-words had a lecture from Ad.S. on the "Mercurial beromater" discovered by use by "Torri Chelli" (Tony Chily) an Italian we laid over all day on account of cloudy weatherApr. 25 FridayUp at 315 a.m. J. had kicked over the synp during the night Left camp at 700 a.m. and reached 11500 ft.
          point which is at the pass at the head of Muldrow, also at the Burgshrund. at 300 p.m. could not find Parker's or Loyds cache. We then returned to
          camp in 3 hours taking it slowly.Saw a rabbit track at 8000 ft. and a laring an at 10000 feet. The try today was the highest I have everbeen. Was 10,000 feet in the Rockies at Leadsville on my way to Alaska. J. cooked supper & cleaned tent today
          beside hauling a great deal of wood. While we were up at 11500 it was bright & clear
          and very cloudy here at camp. Has snowed 2 inches today. J is now cooking supper. The plan
          is to haul wood tomorrow.One year ago today the ice went out of the Tanana. It being St Mark's day we had
          games etc.SaturdayApr 26Left camp late today with two loads of wood. J & Mr. K managed one sled & Walter
          & I the other three dogs free thro. repared wall on
          our return. Ad. S. stayed at home cooked supper and cleaned camp. I have been thinking of
          home & mother all day. We expect to take another load tomorrow early. This was
          J's first trip over crevassesApr 27 SundayArose at five oclock and left at 730 a.m. with two loads for our cache
          at 9000 feet. Ad. S. stayed here at camp We returned for lunch and stayed in camp all
          afternoon.Had service about six p.m. Ad. S. spoke of Rogation Sunday Also the three R. days and
          Holy Thursday also told me of "St. Mark" The symbols of the three 4 Evanglist are The winged lion for St Mark
          because of the decendent of Celust. The
          Eagle for St. Johnbecause he sors so lofty& the man for St. Matthew because he hears tw the human humanity & Christ.Apr 28 MondayArch d. went to the cache with Mr K & the boy
            smuh of loads I stayed in camp & cleaned thoroughly took a bath I was in
            dairy all day. Boys went down to base
          camp to day for rabbit skins and will return tomorrow.Fair weather.Apr 29 TuesdayI arose at 500 Got breakfast, will stair
          in gailip today. Expect boys back tonight.
          Ad.S. Mr. Kaistins and I prospected for
          camp at bend of Glacier that Loyds party left but found nothing. I used prysmatic compass
          today and from Camp looking to Glacier pass. 19° Highest pointtor point on 2nd peak - east 60 Highest point on 3rd pk. 358°
          Fourth peak 350° Fifth peak 344° Lower point on black rock under hanging glacier
          364°North peak of "Danile" 188° Boys returned. No rabbits.Apr. 30 Wednesday.Arose early had bright day and we all went with two load to 11500 fue- where our camp is to bur before we returned The snow begun to fall and
          and we reached camp by 7 p.m. Got to bed late. This was Jonnies fist high chumingAp May 1st 1913arose early, broke camp. Was siriowly all
          day and still is only nachcamp on cache with the load had 5 inches of
          snow last night I had ascention to day service This evening after supper. Expect to move
          carry ho the morning to 115 orf which will be our climbing bose vor will have moved hauled wood 20 mi Stove
            burn rather homesick todayFridayMay 2nd 1913. WednesWe did not move camp this morning at my suggestion. I wanted to relay all freight and
          then move camp last This was agreed to by all concerned. I stayed in camp. And dried up
            canvis & cleaned every thing. Had
          lunch ready at 130 where they returned I stayed in camp this after noon
          fixed things up had a bath & evening service. All returnedabout 620 with news. That our cache had burned up a match had ignighted some canvis. The
          thing was cored. Two of Mr. Bettichers war Pogs were fumed continy Sox Philins fur parka tobacco and
          other invaluable clothing. Also a box contaning milk butter baking powder soap etc. worst of all was the three silk tents. -
          sugar.We expect to move camp in the morning first thing then return for remaining freight.SaturdayMay 3Up early broke camp and moved camp to 11500 feet. Worked all afternoon, built a igloo for
          a cache pitched tent and built a snow wall all around it. Fixed tent very comfortably.May 4 SundayIt was very cold last night. We were up at five this morning Had service at 900 a.m.
          Ad.S. & I with the boys went went after the
          last cache arrived here at 9 p.m. boys returned to bose camp and we had rocked meat
          roll. "all same jellu roll"MondayMay 5I read awhile Mr. K stayed in camp Arch deacon & I went up the ridge and could see
          far down the savage walls into another
          glacier. We returned to camp and boys returned late from bose camp with news that there was 5 inches of snow They returned
          also with some provisions etc. which we hope will see us through.May 6 TuesdayWe have all bern trying to replase things that were lost by fire.Walter & Johnnie went up the ridge to 1200 ft. returned and arranged provisions to
          pack to the upper camp. Walter & Mr. K. made a small tent to replace the burned one. J
          & Ad. S. made socks of a camel hare blanket to replace burned socks & I made
          biscuits to replace The Lord tack. also
          dried there.WednesdayMay 7Mr. K. Walter & John stayed in camp today and finished our 6 x 7 ft tent which we
          will take us to the coll. They also cut
          out a 4 x 5 py rumd tent which we will
          take to the top to set the Myseurial
            baromiter up and under to shelter shelter. Archd. & I went up the ridge
          to prospect a trail but did not siceed succeed.
          We returned by three p.m. & then weworked on the tents serving it up. We find it very hard to sleep up here on account of
          the altitude- the thin airWe saw one of the grandest most magnificent avaland avalanches I have ever seen. Some 500 feet of ice carved from the great
          hanging glacier and threw dense clouds 1000 or more feet in the air.May 8 ThursdayMr. K. Walter & John journeyed up the ridge today prospecting a trail we have watched
            oher most of the day and when our lost
          sight of them for some time we became worried but suddenly saw them appear on one of the
          lower slope Arch deacon and I stayed in today and talked all day He told me of St Timothys
          & we disgussed every thing & every body He aggres with methat I work on the survey party there this
          summer & I may go across country to Fhks. with Mr. KK. so that I may see Mr Thom Mr. Thom. as soon as he comes. Then next
          winter I hope to stay stay in Fairbanks and read read read
          Arch d. is going to either write or see Mr. B. He will also talk with Bishop Pows I hope to order lots of books also.Victoria Waterfalls on the Zembezia River
          in Africa- is the quateel Runon in the
          world.FridayMay 9Arch d. and I went down beyond the crevasses with John as he returned today to the base
          camp with the dogs. He forgot to take the peak cry
            Rinje fork & spoons. We are all awaiting some interesting reports. We had
          a very tiresome try up the glacier but nothing less can be expected on a chine of 21000 feet. Mr. K & Walter took a pack up the ridge and prospected the
          ridge further on They find travling very difficult onaccont of ice block and snow cornices We
          all expect to pack something more in the line of grub or rather relaying the things to the top of the rudy then prospect further To the Parker Call.Armarego Vespuchi discovered South America and was called "Armarego Land" and
          it was corrupted to America and gradually apud to North AmericaSaturdayMay 10A gale blew last night and no one but Walter could sleep. It blew all day lulling at
            Tinies but we could not move forward.
          Mr. K. made an alcohol lamp by perferating the lid of a screw top saw with needle holes
          and filling the lower p bowl with satn roled cotton I read & studdied
          Shake-speare - King Henry Fourth Part I. Had service -as we expect to t move forward tomorrow.May 11 SundayIt has been very cloudy today we four traversed the ridge making good headway packed some
          30 pounds a piece which was all we really cared to pack. Made a cache on the side of the
          great gable of snow & ice. We suppose
          the ridge to have been so shattered by the earth quakes last June 6th It is now cloudy
          & snowing hard. Qt it be clear
          tomorrow we expect to take another pack of lrmb -
            stovretc. and make it to the Call ift possible
          we have some very difficult climbing ahead especially if this snow keeps up. Mr. K has
          decided not to go cross country to Fanhouse so expects to go with us to Tanana If I do not catch a boat I will
          return to Fbks with Mr K. probably stay at
          Nenana a day. Mr. K. cut some drifted snow away from a huge blockCulinary ArtsIs the art of Cookingof honey coned ice some 10 x 15 x 25
          feet. I tumbled down 1000' of feet brow us in to the glacierMondayMay 12.Went on to the ridge today and took a look beyond the gable. It has been very heavily
          clouded and has snowed some six inches. Much to our sorrow. We do not expect to advance
          tomorrow on account of avalanching Snow, but hope it will clear off We returned to camp by
          noon, had lunch and stayed in camp all day and we'll have to to the same tomorrowThe yellow glosses obstruct obstruct the ultar
          violent rays of the sun and and there fore protect the eyeTuesdayMay 13Still cloudy and snowing- about 3 inches has fallen today and we will be unable to move
          forward tomorrow. Up to the present date we have been delayed some eight days. 2 on
          account of first heavy snow at our first glacier camp- 3 on account of fire and three so
            fort on account of this snow. If no snow
          falls tomorrow we may expect to advance the next day.I have studied King Henry IV today and read my Testament. Walter had dictation Mr. K. is
          working on plans of his boat "The Thawer"Wednesday.May 14We rose at five this morning in order if to
          have the heat from the stove before the sun rose. I have suffered with a canker sore in
          the right side of my jaw today. Have had s some
          sun but still cloudy We dried all the comieses and skins & bedding in the sun and I studied King H IV We hope
          to move on tomorrow if the weather is aggreableMay 15 ThursdayI have burn indisposed today with
          Tonsilydas have felt misserable Walter Arch d. & Mr K broke trail up the rodge we hope
          to all go tomorrow A.d. & J. relay us
          the ridge Mr. K & Walter brake trail further on I have thought a great deal of
            Ren. & Bertha today also Mildred and the home folks. It has been very clear
          today & I took a roms to angles at
          noon over.Reading of Prysmatic compass from our glacier camp at head of the MuldrowThe Sun at 1215p.m. 150°Top of parker Cal 163°Highest point of first ridge west of Parker Cal } 205°Highest point of Second ridge west of P.C. } 239°Mid point of upper most tributary glacier } 285 °Mid point of lower most tributary glacier } 310^°Mid point of Muldrow Ga - 348°Highest point of ice ridge on east Loundry } 15°Lowest point of North east ridge } 102°Our camp faces 348° with the glacier.FridayMay 16.I Stayed in camp today. Did not sleep most of the night on account of neuralgia on the right side of my face. Hope to
            elnub again tomorrow I slept a little
          this afternoon but have felt misserable all day. Had supper ready by pinst their return. I have a little neuritos in my right shoulder torn it also. Archd. M K & W advanced today
          and their trail now ends at 13000 feet. Have had a strong wind todayBeautiful day.SaturdayMay 17Archdeacon is staying in camp with me today to help me to recover & Mr. K & W.
          have gone up the ridge. I expect to go tomorrow. Archd complemented me on my work done on
          this trip. His plan is for me to work this summer & go to the states next winter and
          have a private tutor from the U.T. for 2 yrs. and enter some ruwert Mr. K & W. returned at noon ridge too dangerous or it was
          cloudyMay 18 SundayCloudy & snowing all day. We all had to stay in camp today and I have sufferd severly
          with a headache. Took some fenastine for
          the first time. The beromiter is still at its lowest some very large avalanches fell and
          threw clouds 1000s of feet in the air Had service this morning and went to bed early
          tonightMay 19 MondayI stayed in bed 12 1/2 hours. had breakfast at 1000 a.m. I am feeling better today. All
          over east & snowing heavilty. The beromiter is slightly rising and we are in hopes we
          can move forward tomorrow. I finished King Henvry IV Part II this morning. The wood is
          getting very low. and we are limited to 6 sticks per day and but small onesMay 20 TuesdayThere are 3 devisions of the Church - The ChurchMilitant, Fight - " " [The Church][Expectant, Waiting - " " [The Church]Triumphant, heaven - " " [The Church]King Edward VII isnow King of England Succeeded Queen Victoria in 1901 The Year of
          Inauguration of Theodore Roosevelt.Still cloudy all day and we have all been in camp. I have studied the prayer book It
          cleared off this evening and we hope to move forward tomorrow.The following text was crossed out by the author.The office of Morning PrayerThe office of Evening PrayerThe Litiny Sufferng isThe Penatential officeHoly CommunionBaptism of InfantsBaptism of Those of Riser (yfors.)ConfirmationSolemozation of MatrimonyVisitation of the SickBearial of the DeadMorning Family PrayerEvening Family PrayerMaking of DeaconsOrdaining of PriestConsecrating of Bishops.The office of The consecration of a
          church.The office of Insitution ofThe preceding text was crossed out by the author.The following text was written sideways in the margins of the
          page.Aug 20 196 - 15 - 19125 - 22 - 189023 - 228 20 19138 20 1891225 - 22 - 19135 22 189023The preceding text was written sideways in the margins of the
          page.5 22 18908 20 18915 22 18902 28 '1prustin a CtonMay 21 WednesdayHad the first clear day today. Mr. K & W. went up the ridge & Ad. & I stayed
          in camp. He took exersise where I cooked and fixed my mellws. Mr. K & W. found the ridge trail entirely invisible and
          laboured 6 hours reaching our cache they then ventured some further than the end of the
          former trail and as soon as they reached camp the clouds poured over the ridge and we are
          now in a lenother & heavy snowCloudy Sunshine & SnowMay 22 ThursdayWe have been at this camp for 19 days today all of last week I was sick and feel wretched
          today. For cloudy today to move forward. Provided the hail holds Mr K & Walter will be
          able to put it through to the Call in our
          day I have thought of Kenneth much today.
          Have thought of Mildred today and wish her much happiness on this her 23rd birthday. Mildred was born 1890 and is 1 yr. 2 mo & 28 days older than
          myself andwas married June 15, 1911 when she was 21 yrs & 23 days old. They bought their little
          home June 15, 1912Howard was married to Margaret Fink Dec 1st 1910. She was married first to Mr. Harrington
          and lived in Siberia. They left the country in the Spring of 1912 Papa arrived Nov. Sev 7th 1911 at Fairbanks and left June 10, 1912.
          He arrived at Home just one month later. Mrs. Hows died July 3rd 1912.I have exercised part of the day. Have had a headache todayMr. K & Archd. asked me if I felt that I were able to mose the top or return to the base camp. I hope to go up if
          possible.May Friday 23rd 1912Very cloudy & snowing this morning again clearing Archdeacon suggested moving camp to
          the flat place on the ridge. We packed up every thing each person carrying not less than
          40 or 45 lbs. We only went a a short way until
          I suggested that we could not make it. All agreed. Arch d. realized his limitations and
          said he could not make it We expect to all tail up tomorrow Archd. & I pitch camp while the others advance the trail
          to a higheraltitude. We hope to make the lale now in
          a few days if we can have some clear weather. We will all take small packs tomorrow I have
          been thinking of Miss Groves today and we have talked some of my experiences on the trail
          at the crossing.Any one that thinks climbing Denali is a picnic is badly
          mistaking.May 24th SaturdayHad a high wind all night Took loads from here and
            reached this morning and reached the flat place on the last ridge about 2 p.m. pitched our small tent digging some three feet
          in the snow. We packed moved our cache up to the tent. And expect to move the bedding up
          tomorrow. And as it is so clear tonight we hope that we can make the call tomorrowSundayMay 25We left camp this morning with all the bedding 2 caribou skins and other necessities.
          Reached our ridge camp about 1130 a.m. Had lunch and Mr. K. & W
          went up the ridge prospecting a trail they returned about 700 p.m. This
          morning we had service before we left our base camp.May 26th MondayNo one slept last night on account of altitude etc. We are very comfortable in our small
          camp. Walter & I went up the ridge to prospect a trail advanced some distance Mr. K
          and Arch d. stayed in camp. And had dinner ready when we returned. We are quite tired
          tonight. Expect to arise at 430 in the morning and Rise to make the call
            tomorrow. And will advance some provisions alsoTuesdayMay 27thI dreamed last night that we were living at 400 East Main Ave and Papa died. I was
          sitting in the sitting room & Bertha came & kissed me- or rather it's
          equivalent, in my dream- and after that I was alright. I cried also in y my sleep. Walter said. And I feel very blue and
          ill at ease today Mr. K & W. have gone up the ridge today and Archd. & I are
          staying in camp It is rather clear on the ridge today but cloudy on the glacier I am reading Papas letter over today and feel rather homesick Mr. K
          and W. have reached the smoothe snow slope. and returned to camp about 620 p.m. We were glad to seen them there
          tho it is very dangerous climbing. They have to make the call tomorrow and dig out a camp
          Right while Archd. & I relay I rather fear climbing the ridge with A.d. but will as it
          is my duty.May 28 WednesdayArchd & I expect to relay today up the ridge I feel very blue and Glat-case also nervous. Mr. K & W. have gone
          and expect to reach the Call today. I have thought of home a great deal. Archd. & I
          have just returned from one relay to the Earthquake cleverage took our sack of Pummican one sack of tea - 1 can butter 1 pack
          chocolate 2 pkgs raisens and one pack of candied almonds. We had a slow safetrip and hope to make another this afternoon if it clears off. Archd. and I had a long
          talk this morning about the work & workers. This afternoon just before starting up the
          ridge I lighted the Premus stove and started to prick it and the pricker broke off. Archd.
          was very much upset and I would have been to blame for the party's either delay or not
          reaching the top had such have happened. A.d. would not let me touch the stove after
          words. After the stove was fixedevery thing was alright and of course I would not have been to blameMr. K & W. returned about 430 and Mr. K fixed it. They nearly
          reached the top of the smoothe slope but were driven back by the high wind. They fully
          expect to reach the Cal tomorrow.Thursday May 29Sleeping was very uncomfortable last night and the bedding is getting very wet. Mr. K
          & W. left about 930 am. Mr. K dreadfully displeased about
          something. They took big packs and we are drying the bedding as best we can. Every body
          A.d. & all are wishing it were all at an end but guess we will stick it out to the
          end. We hope to leave in a few minutes with packs.It makes me feel very blue when I thinkthat it might take us until June 15th or after to reach the top. Have
          been thinking much of home and friends and will be very glad indeed to get some mail.
          Archd. & I took a load up to the cache 850 feet above our camp here at 13000 feet
          returned and Walter & Mr K returned from their days new, Alas they have reached the call and we expect to move up tomorrow.Friday May 30We expect to move camp today. The wind is blowing just mow on the upper ridge and we will start out shortly hope to make
          the top by the 6th at the earliest.Well we have at last reached the cal and every body feels well and happy. This camp is
          pitched where Parker had his We now have ginh for 3 days. And expect tobring the rest up tomorrow. Have splendid view of the broken glacier here the bason and bugs hund It has been clear this after noon and we hope it will be so in the
          morning. It took 5 hours steady climbing from our ridge camp at 13000 feet. This altitude
          we call 15500 feet. And are camped in the same spot Parker was caped when his Pemmicanfailed him.Rice takes 50 min to cook at this altitude instead of 40 min. Mr. K & W. saw a bend
          at 15000 ft. yesterday. Walter & I expect to move the caches tomorrow while Mr. K
          & Arch d prospect ahead. I have a touch of t rhumatisme tonight The worst I have had on the trip as my stomach is a little
          bound up I will say nothing until tomorrow I wore a frozen glove today but am in hopes it
          will pass off.Saturday May 31stWalter & I went down to the old ridge camp today at 13000 feet brought up the
          creepers skins my scarff and a few odds
          and ends. picked up the oil at our first cache. And a number of articles at our second
            camp cache and I packed up Archdeacon
          Berometer at the third cache. We grew very thirsty & weary before reaching the
            call and there is still one trip to make
          below to ourridge cache at 13800 Expect to make that try early int he morning. Arch d. & Mr. K.
          went a head and located a camping place we hope to move camp partly tomorrow. I woke up
          this morning with rhumatyne in my left
          wrist and it worried considerably but it
          has not bothered me very much I do not worry so much God will carry me through..Sunday June 1stThis morning we arose at 530 had breakfast & morning prayer. Then
          Walter & I went down to our ridge cache and brought up good heavy loads. Got back by
          noon. Mr. K & A.d. stuckbuw took a load over to the cache at 16000 feet
          after lunch Mr. K. W. & I took a heavy load over and Ad. read his Wolaineal Baromiter we returned to our Cal camp
          and the wind was blowing a holt Gale
          downthe Big basin and after about 800 p.m. It began to clear off in the
          south and we saw the Alaskan range spread out like a great map before us I was able to
          take a few angles from this point. We expect to move camp in the morning.Boiling point thermometer reads 186 8/10°The Barometer registered 15000 feetAngles from Parker Cal.South peak - 200North peak - 250Muldrow Glacier - 252 (High peak of Ice rdg. 8
            or Ice peak of N. E. Ridge) Mount hunter - 35Snow Mountain distance- thought to be at the head of the Nenana 37°Monday May June 2We dried out the robe at the cal camp this morning and then broke camp and moved it it to our 15800 ft camp cache where we Arch d
          &I are staying this afternoon while Mr. K & Walter have gone ahead prospecting. This
          camp is located at the base of a sarae on
          the South limit of the big Bowow. We
          expect to move forword tomorrow and hope to bring our journey to a success ful conclusion
          by the last of this werik Arch deacon
          & I have had a pleasant talk this afternoon and has offered to send me some books of
            referance if he gathers resources from
          any lectures he also promised me adictionary regardles of proccess of this
          trip which I shall be thankful to have. Mr K & W. returned found a camping place at
          the head of the first Sarac and we expect
          to move camp tomorrow.Tuesday June 3High wind blew all night and we were very wouder and slept but very little we expect to movecamp today. And with even hope will reach the top by the 7th or 8th either Saturday or Sunday. We expect to have one more camp besides
          this one that we will move to today. The low lands have been quite clear yesterday &
          today and we have had a very broad view from this camp. WeTuesday June 3 it con.Wednesday, June 4This morning we broke camp about 1020 a.m. had a high wind all night where we were
          sitting resting about half way to our new camp Archdeacon mention the fact if the flock
            stalf were up it would be on one of the
          lower peaks. Then W. cried out "I see it" Then Mr. K saw it and with the glasses
          the four of us saw it This vendies all and
          we we will not have to climb the North peak. We moved further on andpitched camp at 16800 We expect to stay born here tomorrow and move forward soon.Wednesday June 4ThursdayArchd & I relayed while Mr. K & W prospected ahead. Archdeacon was unwell and we
          had to turn back from the head of the first Sarac. Mr. K & W. returned early in the
          after noon on account of the scortching hot sun. However they located a camp sight and we
          expect to movetomorrow. It has been cloudy today and we are afraid we will not have a clear day on
          top.Thursday June 5thThis morning we broke camp and move to a place on the second sorce about half way up and expect to move to our 18000 ft camp
          tomorrow It has been very foggy today and not very promising We moved our cacheto the head of the Sarac.Friday. June 6thToday we moved camp from the Second Sarac tot he 18000 ft camp. it is located by a great
          bolder of ice and the scenery is most superb. To the south of us rises the great North
          Summit of South peak and in front by looking
          out our tent door if we see the great Alaskan
          range spread like a map before us. The Northpeak also rises sheer up thousands of feet directly North of us and back of our tent
          rises another Sarac some 600 feet. After which continues a smoothe swoon slope that ends abruptly we and Denali's children rise in all other
          majesty beyond.We expect to make the final dash by leaving tonight about midnight1913 Saturday June 7thToday stands a big red litcer in my life
          as our party of four Hudson Stuck Harry Phillipp Karstens Walter Harper & my self
          reached the summit of Mount McKinley (Denallis) some 20600 feet above the sea level the
          highest mountain in a on the N. American
          continent. I was quite sick & so was Mr. K. but we left this morn at 400 a.m. and reached the summit at 100 pm Arch d was very short winded and had
          great difficultyin making the ascent but we took it very slowly. Walter reached the top first Mr. K next
          Archd. third & I last. I had made a flag an raised it. First of all after we all shook
          hands with congratulations. Arch deacon offered a prayer of thanks. Then the Instruments
          were read and I raised the flag and Archd. photographed it. Then while I took some angles
          with the prysmatic compas W. & Mr. Kerected a cross. And set it up. And we all gathered around it and said "Te
          Deun" Then Mr. K. toro took a picture of
          us.Thee was a better wind blowing and the
          thermometer registered 4+ It was too cold to change the philm in the camera.After spending ni an hour up there we made our
          way down going some two miles out of our way to look for Parkers thermomiter we were
          unable to find itbut gathered a few paces pieces of granit for
          souveneers we returned to our little camp about f 500 p.m. Very tired but happy and expect to move back downward tomorrowI thought of those at home and would have reread papas letter on top had it not have been
          so cold.Sunday June 8thWe all slept well last night. Yesterday and today have been two "red letter days
          Yesterday we accomplished our purpose and today we have retraced our steps over the most
          dangers part of our journey We left our 18000 ft camp at 930 a.m.
          having service just before leaving and at the Parker Call let the Premus stove and made a
          big pot of tea. Arch deacon cached his thermomiter on at the foot of an up inded
            slaf at the call on the face towards the Grand boson. Wecame down very carefully and had heavy packs. Mine weighed some 45 pounds. Mr. K lead the
          way an Walter was at the wheel. We passed our four camps in the Grand Boson one by one and then our then our ridge camp
          and lastly our Glacier camp at 11500 we reached at 900pm. We were all tired and very glad to reach it. We hope to leave early
          in the morning and reach our base camp in about eight hours. We are exceedingly
          anxiousto see Johnnie.About 18 miles of new snow has fallen on the ridge since we left the lower end of it. And
          the whole ridge has changed in places.We will have been away from land 12 mo & 22 days tomorrow. The wonderful
          transformation from winter among ice & snow to mid summer among the green grass and
          leaving grees is indeed wonderful.Monday June 9thWe all slept well last night and left the 11500 ft glacier camp this morning about 10am. We expect to find very hard going and had quite a load on the Yukon
          sled but as for trooled over the lower
          glacier we found it quite easy and after trail till heed all but one bridge was safe to
          travel and we went around the end of that crevass The four miles at this end of the MudrowMuldrow was well thawed and we had a great deal of water Before climbing the short ascent
          to the pas Magonigal Pass We cached the Yucon
            sled some snow shoes and a tent. Where
          this was done we came slowly down the camon of the base camp with our heavy packs. Travling over snow most of the
          way. Reached the camp about 8 pm & found Johnnie well & happy.
          He had beenalone exactly one month and had killed 4 sheep & 1 caribou. As we came over the Pass,
          Walter picked some blue flower. the first we had seen in the sudden transformation from
          Mid Winter to Mid Summer.Tuesday June 10Today we lay in camp making dog packs, cooking & washing. and expect to move to the
          Mc Kinly fork tomorrow If all goes well We are still having cloudy weather.Wednesday June 11thThis morning we broke camp and left about 18 Dim left quite a cache then in the tent we made our way slowly on until noon
          and this afternoon as we were following Loyds trail over the lowlands the rain came down
          in torrents and we were thoroughly soaked. Reached Loyds tent on the McKinley Fork about 3
          p.m. And will stay here over nightand try today out It is a very large tent and has a small stove in it. So we will take
          turns in keeping the fire up to dry out our cloths before morning.Thursday June 12thLast night we sat up all night drying our cloths and just when we were ready to leave
          this morning it began to pour the rain in. K thought it wouldpass over and so it did about 11 o clock and we had a cup of tea and left the tent
          immediately. As we were crossing the rion
          which I had so long dreaded and as Arch deacon had to be carried across. I took Walters
          dog. Johnnie had quite a hard time making his dog go forward so I was pushing him and
          after he started on I lost hold on my ice axe and my two dogs started across steam and
          pulled me over. Thenthey threw me on my back and splashed my face full of water and I lost my breath. The
          current was very strong and the water filed upon me. Mr. K rushed to me and just before I was about to go under he grabbed
          my hand and saved me. Walter came over too and took my pack. Mr K & Johnnie led me
          over as my breath was very short and I was weak. When I reached shore &fell on the ground and wept for thanks. We waited some time for me to gather strength and
          then traveled on to Eureka reaching there about 8 p.m. Mr. Jack Hamilton cooked supper and
          we got to bed about 2 a.m. We stayed for lunch and on the side of a little hill before reaching the lake and made tea & hot
          cakes. The lake is beautiful. From then on we had hadFriday June 13thThis morning we rose late. Mr. Quinn came to see us. Later he went up and told Frt to come down which he did. We were all glad
          to see him. He gave us a nugget of his gold.Mr. Hamilton walked down to Friday Creek with us. And we made our way over the Hills to
            Jac & Fannie Quigley's. Met Mr.
          MacGonigal and Jac & Fannie came in
          very late she cooked a delicioussupper. And we got to bed about twelve and up late. Archd. had talk with MacGonigal and
          got a straight forward narrative of their trip in 1910. --> Saturday June 14thWe got up late this morning Had a delicious breakfast and left there about 11 00 a.m. We
          made good time to Glacier right down the stream. And reached Lire about 6 p.m. Few weeks travel from the top of the mountainand before we were here on Easter one weeks travel from NenanaWe used some of Mr. Taylor's (Bill Taylor) grub Got to bed late.Sunday June 15thWe slept too cheap last night. The mosquitoes were very bad last night we left Glacier this morning about 1000 a.m. and
          reached Mr Grice's cabin seven miles
          below, about 100 p.m. He gave us lunch and let ushave his boat to go down moose creek in to Diamond City. Walter & John will return
          with it tonight It took us five hours to reach Diamond. Fortunately we found every thing
          in good condition. Also found some potatoes. We will stay over tomorrow and part of the
          next day until the boat is ready then launch out on the last stage of our journey happily
          - Moose Creek & The Bear Paw are very
          low but we anticipate no bad going.Monday June 16thThis morning we arose about seven a.m. Cooked breakfast and did around Did not sleep well last night so do not
          feel well today. We expect to launch forth tomorrow about noon It has been hot and sultry
          all day today and I am cooking a Ham & goose.Have been thinking of mama and all the family yesterday & today. The Boys returned at
          900 p.m. this eveningTuesday June 17thThe Boys returned to Mr. Brice with the palling boat
            and returned to DIamond at 9 p.m. this eveningI ho chopped wood all morning for our voyage
          to Tanana Mr. K & John fixed the boat. Archd. has been waiting all morning while
          Walter reorganized his btiches. At Three p.m. we left Diamond aud one making good time travling dayand night.June 18WednesdayThis mornig we reached the Kantishna at 500 a.m. and expect to reach the Tanana in the
          morning. Passed the Zoklat at 530 p.m.
          today. Yesterday w I saw a (beaver) & 2
            cal calf moose. We are working on 4 hour
          shifts and moving on rapidlyThursday June 19Reached the Tanana at 730 p.m. this morning we made splendid time, 7
          miles an hour and this evening has found us so near our journeys end that we scarcely can
          believe that we ar so near again to civilization again. We xpect to reach Tanana about
            100 a.m.These flowers were gathered at the head of the Magonigal Pass. The first we saw after 82
          days on the Mountain (Denalli)Gathered on June 9th 1913Friday June 20We reached Tanana this morning at 620 a.mm. As we drifted since
          yesterday evening. First we had lunch breakfast
          at the reslurau and then went down to
            Roduruns store and awaited the opning of
          the telegraph office Arch deacon send a long message to Mr. Bruch at Seattle Mr. K left in the boat for Ruby and we expect him
          to return about Wednesday or Thursdayand Johnnie o will return to Nenana with him.
          I bought underware, hat, shoes, suit, ($35) tee shirt, colar sox, suspenders oranges
            (Awuont expender) ( ) I made some signs for Archdeacon also and tacked them
            upSaturday June 21This noon I went down town attude to
          considerable business and met Capt. Bond Lieut Singleton, and was invited todinner By Capt B made some signs for Arch deacon and had a shove. Arch deacon let me have
            $1000 which I shall return when I reach 7 bks. I sent a message home yesterday also to Mr. B. I also
          met Tom Nelson today.Sunday, June 22I attended service at "The Mission of Our Sorrows" this morning. The firstCommunion I have attended since we Palm Sunday
          March 16th Also attended service at 12 M Aud native enjoyed it. Arch deacon will have Service at 8 p.m. at
          St James Chapel. Expect a large congregation.I will have Jonnies nugget made into a pin. Also order him a nice prayer book.Monday June 23This morning we rose about nine. Had breakfast & stand down to the Camish Arch deacon wrote some letter to go off on the St Michael to Dawson I did not get my letter home finished Mr
          & Mrs Kilroy left on S & MI worked on the boat w most of the day then
          went to Capt. Bonds for dinner Capt Langley & Mr Rack were there. After dinner I met
          Lieut Singleton & and Mrs Singleton Lieut
          Bartow & Lieut Aid playing ping
          pong.I slept at Mr Simpaw and will work on the
          boat tomorrowJune 24TuesdayWorked all day on the Pelican and slept in the lawchWednesday 25Worked on the lawch and slep and had
          meals on itThursday 26thWorked on the lawch painting &
          cleaning walked to the mission had teaFriday 27Sent telegram to Mr Quon& Mr Shaw lfn has not arrived.Saturday 28wrote signs for Arch deacon about services Herljed Walter & Johnnie launch boat And expect to start engine tonightSunday June 29This morning we were late in arrising and were consequently late with breakfast. We went
          down town in the Mission boat and attended service at St James Chapel. Arch deacon had a
          purely devotional communion service and gave a splendid talk. Walter worked on the boat
          and slept on it last night. and he & Johnnie came
            to service did not attend serviceMonday June 30I started to paint the ry stains room
          this after noon and found it quite a job Was disappointed in not getting the paint to
          match Walter is making speed with his engine and is an adoreable boy. He will be greatly
          missed when away.Tuesday July 1Have been painting all day and helping around the house Miss Langdon is quite fussy but
          we can get along.Wednesday July 2I have sent for my mail & hope that Mr. Betticher will bring it down from Nenana when he comes. I have thought of home
          folks a great deal since my return but have been unable to do any writing I have finished
          the room today and hope to brain the roof
          at once There is plenty of work to be done at this mission and a man is needed but to take
          this place requires quite a bit of trinkThursdayI painted all day on the roof. This after noon we reed telegram from Mr. B that he would
          be on Tanana and it arrived at 2 a.m. about 10pm The St Michael passed and the Bishop was
          on it. The came up late & it was 3 a.m. before we retired. I have thought of Bertha
          & Ken todayFriday July 4We arose very late this morning and immediately after breakfast Miss Langdon had a long talk with Bishop until lunch Immediately after lunch Mr B Ad. Bishop
          & I went to Ad's cabin & I had a long talk and a very satisfactory one with
          the exception that I go to Mt Hermon He has stationed Mr at Nenana for this winter and
          next summer I willgo outside & have a tutor & hope to ender the UTHe spoke of my holding services & and delivering sinple explanations of the Bible He
          gave permission to take any booksThe Archdeacon spoke very highly of me to Bishop & Mr BMiss Langdon & Mealoness pick one to
          be stationed here. Bishop requires of me to write hima letter every 3 mo as a report of my work. I shall also have to write
          the Arch deacon. Mr. B brought my mail and I have been very happy todaySaturday July 5Mr. B & I went to town with Ard. Bishop & W. and they departed about noon. Mr. B
          & I called on Major Ranking, Mrs.
            Swortz - Mrs Burgman a loor of flowers - Mrs. Bond and tookdinner with Caft and Mr. Pearson and
          afterwards Mrs Ealy Ms Artow Mrs Brad and Mrs Pearson with Capt. Pearson & Mr.
          B went up to the mission and attended two weddings. Joseph & K Nicholi and Dom Hunter and Frank slyhen & Dora Alex Alex & Dora Stephens, very pretty wedding
          Returned to Black House & retired awaiting St MichaelSunday July 6thI have read most of the day today and this
          morn. we went to the Telegraph office and post office & around town Then Left Tanana
          about 1100 a.m. Mr. B His here fairly pleasant and Says Mr W. is going to Tanana CrossingMonday July 7This morning we passed Hot Springs and I saw Mr Whittney for a little while I have read
          & slept most of the day This after noon The Steamer Delta over took uson the St. Michael and Mr. B & I transfound and are making splendid time. Hope to reach Tenana by noon
          tomorrow. This is a very pleasant boat & travel on the state room is very comfortable indeed.Tuesday July 8I rested well last night and was up early this morning Expect tor each Nenana by 1100
            pmwell we arrived at 10 a.m. found every body well & happy Karstens had left but an
          hour before and when he was here he said all sorts of things slandering the Arch deacon. Much to my surprise as he vowed he would
          say nothing to the out siders about our little differences I had a long talk with Mr.
            Bahon affairs and are very much dis
          pleased about Madana wanting to stay
          here.The following text was crossed out by the author.ask Mr Rabout when Mr. M will leave.ask him about going to Fblos.Inquire about my church letterGive Mr. B copy of my church letterGet trousers from boat.Speak to Arch deacon about books in churchBorrow razor from W.ask Bishop to send 1/2 my stypend home.The preceding text was crossed out by the author.Whist broomtooth brushface powdertooth powder2 colors1 shirtcombBorn InauguratedJames Buchanan Apr 23, 1791 Mar 4, 1957Abraham Lincoln Feb 12 1809 '61Andrew Johnson Dec 29 '08 Apr. 15 '65Ulysses S. Grant Apr 22 '22 Mar 4 '69Rutherford B Hayse Oct Oct 4 22 " 5
          '77James A Garfield Nov 19 '31 " 4 ^' 81Chester A Arthur Oct 5 '30 Sept 30 '81Grover Cleveland Mar 18 '37 Mar 4 85Benjamin Harrison Aug 20 '33 '89Grover Cleveland Mar 18 '37 93Wm McKinley Jan 29 43 97Theodore Roosevelt Oct 27 58 Sept 14 1901 The following text is written perpendicular to the above
          list.William Howard Taft B Sept 15 1857Inaugurated Mar 4 1909The preceding text is written perpendicular to the above
          list.The following text is written perpendicular to the list
          below.Presidents of U.S.The preceding text is written perpendicular to the list
          below.Born InauguratedGeorge Washington Feb. 22, 1732 - Apr. 30, 1789-John Adams, Oct 31 1735 - Mar 4 1799-Thomas Jefferson Apr 2 1743 - " 4 1801James Madison Mar 16, 1751 - " 4 '09John Quincy Adams July 11 1757 " 4 '25Andrew Jackson Mar 16 1767 " 4 '29Martin Van Buren Dec 5 1782 " 4 '37Wm H Harrison Feb 9 1773 " 4 '41John Tylor Mar 29 '90 Apr 6 '41James K Polk Nov 2 '95 Mar 4 '45Zachary Taylor Sept 24 '84 '49Millard Filmore Feb 7 1800 Jul 9 '50Frlanklin Piece Nov 23 '04 Mar 4 '53DEBTS.✓ Rodman Trading Co. 57.75✓ Vashon Tanana Com. Co. 3.50✓ Stuck 15.00Will send his Gun. Walter Harper .25✓ D. T. McClure 2.2578.75The following text is written on top of the text on this
          page.PaidThe preceding text is written on top of the text on this
          page.Foricher E12M pk McK 332Mudrow 10BourroughsWelcome & Co.N.Y.Medicine Case like Arch deaconsJ J O'Brien & Son122 East 23rd StN.Y. Standard DiaryMucklucksKing Islandcheese onions caribou extractcombination - comb brush & mirror. serving kit. pocket magnifying glass. pack of stace tape. toth brush. Diary. Silk
          handherchiefs. Reading matter tools.
          Hammer. files combination tool etc. knife. folding packet scissors. Folding lantern.
          Combination twesers & magnifying glass for extracting splinters.Erbs
              worstErbs worst. Peters chocolate Swigback Pemmican balls.Sugar. Salt. Bay Leaves. Rice. Meat. ham. bacon. coffee. tea. Spices. How. flavoring. Eggs. butter. milk. cocoa. soap.
          Worcestershire Sauce. Mabelene.
          pepper.Woolen socks. Insoles & inner diffe
          for Moccasins. long stockings. heavy.Silk tents. pyramid. & green to break glare. Tent & stove. Cooking utensils.
          Great deal of canvis Yeager blankets
          Feather quilts Candles. Carbide lightMedicine especially lanilene. Borascic acid & vasoline.High mountains equipment. For Snow Mountain climbingIce axeHemp climbing rope.Premer stoveRough locked snow shoesCerupersfur parka. Drilloveralls.MoccasinsLeather mitts. woolenwoolen underwearwoolen shirtThe 20th century commentary - 10 VolThe remaining vol of the set of commentarys by
          W W Now excepting the one on the 4 Gospels
          of the Acts of Revalationa prayer book for Johnnie.The heart of Happiness "By Percy C AinsworthFrederick A Stokes Company - N.Y.G. A. Henty { The night of the White Cross.{ The Lion of St Mark in VeniceR L Stephens { Treasure Island{ The Rector' Vade Mecurn{ EP button & Co. 39 West 23st NY{ Compiled Chiefly from Brok of Common PrayerPlutarch's Lives By The Rev. John. & William Langhorne (Published by Lovell,
          Cornell & Co. 43, 45 & 47 10th St. N.Y.The Religio Medical Masquerade By Frederick W Peabody L.F.B. The prices
          this book is $100 & 8 cts. postage The Hancock Press P.O. Box 2789 Boston Mass.The Siege of the South Pole (By) Hugh R. Mill D.sc,
            LSD. with Illustrations from Drawings Photographs & Maps (Pub. by)Henry Altenus Co. Phila. Penn.The American YearBook Alminac and Atlas.San Francisco Examiner San Francisco Calif.Spangenbergs Practical ArithmeticGeo A Zeller Book Co. St. Louis Mo.The Complete Mountain-eer. - By - George D. Abraham - D tribe day. Page & Co. N.Y.Life of David Livingston a Missionary in AfricaCrecy's Fifteen Decisive Battles of the Wourld.A Phisical GeographyDr. Johnsons life of BoswellThe Rambler.The Spectator.Dr. Johnsons Essays.The Beauty of a Life of Service - Phillipps BrookBooks.$10. Liponcott' Gazetteer$150. Botanical Incyclopedia $150or$50 Century dictionary & Incyclopedia & Atlas combined ($50)$300 Dictionary of National Biography By $300 Stevens - 50 volumesArdinos Ward.Fisk's Discovery of America - 3 Volumes.Prescotts Narratives Conquest of Mexico, " " Peru.Prof. Parsons. stick pinDr. Hodge. - May be stickedKent.Mother Missler. & MarmieLouise PhillippsAddie RollenGertrude SchoefieldMildred & Bon.Momma Papa Rosa & RoyWalter Pearl & Lena & JoneHoward & Margaret, & M.J.Allen Turbeville stick pinSadie NixonRobert TurnbellMah Reynolds WellsMrs. BrownlowMiss Elizabeth Alice HaslamDelia HarrisBertha HKen HAlma & Val. G.Trula W.Mack R & ChubbyClint J. - stick pinVelda WElla T.Fosters - Jack & Shy stick pinTilleyMcCrary - Carl - Moot stick pin Aunt S.Toursand Geo.Ola L.Frank & Geo. G. stick pinsAddictMrs. Boars Wilks Baars.Mr. Br Hyde stick pinThe Williams at Little RockFrank Tatum stick pinkIrwinIsabel MillionZola Keeton & Harry stick pinTo Archdeacon I thank you for the kindness you have shown me in so many many ways. I can
          assure you that it is greatly appreciated I am very thankful indeed to have had been able to spend 3 mos with you It is one of
          the greatest privileges I have ever had.327712019.5.18.152.197950300503504175500011[Back Cover Recto][Back Cover]Girls at NenanaLucy HenryLaura BetterJulia AlbertSallie SalvetEva HenryMary WellsMaggie AlbertEdna BurgessLena SmithDora HenryBoys at NenanaSamuel AbrahamEsaias GeorgeJohn FredrickGeorge MowersMike MicholiAlfred StarAla KellunnJohnson EanAbraham JosephHarry RileyPeter JohnTimothy BennettDavid AlbertCharlie Smith