Page 1

Loudon June 20, 1864 Col. O P Temple, Dear Sir; -Your letter of this day has just come to hand for which please accept my thanks. You accept my proposition in the main, but propose some modifications in your favor in the negociation, none of which I feel the stightest hesitency in incorporating in the terms of our trade, except the one in regard to the Solomons claim. I know nothing about the condition of this claim, but it is a just claim & from what you say it think it will be collected - there are certainly funds enough to pay the claim & I see no means by which the claim coluld be avoided - If I insure this claim & it be lost I would pay you more than half what I regard as the present value of the interest here; though it may and without some misfortune probably would amount to considerably more in the final winding up - It will certainly be some time before we can wind the matter out unless we could wholesale and I do not believe we are going

Page 2

to be able to do this at a reasonable profit. As to my assistance, whether I told you or not I should not refuse to assist you in any matter whether connected with this or why other of your business obligations - Besides the business arrangements we have in contemplation would throw me in a position to meet these matters with care - we would most likely have new business in all these counties of which you speak. My recollection is that most of the Hawkins County matters have been settled up as have a good many others of those Railroad claims, and the good part of the matter is the Railroad has not as yet paid us one cent as compensation for our services - Mary is getting along much better now than I expected she would. Her health is good and appetitie reasonalbe I think she is improving on squirrel and fresh mutton. She & Grandma have a neat little wigwam constructed in the grove near the house, completed & after the most approved style - where she spends part of each day when cloyed

Page 3

with her lessons in letters and in music. She says to take real good care of her little chickens until she gets home - and also to say to you she has learned to ride " the pony" alone, but " be not alarmed". She says to tell you she is almost crazy about "the pony" & you must buy it for her - to tell you all about the pony. She wants to see you all of cource but she is certainly delighted here, she is the pet for all of us and melud do not like the idea of giving her up. Still I promise Mrs. Temple to to keep her no longer than she feels a perfect willingness to stay - If Mrs T. would stay Marry I assure you would be the opptiances used to keep her with us much longer than you could spare her at home. She says she feels like she has & three houses" - one here & one at Grandma Farnsworth's. She speaks of coming home next Saturday " to go to sunday school" Yours very Truly S. A. Rogers.

Page 4

S A Rogers 1864 He afterwards did accept my terms

