Page 1

Apl. 22d 1871 My Dear Good Doctor- Your obliging favor gave me pleasure, as your letters always do. You have good old fashioned way of throwing your heart, full of generous impulses, into your letters - always so genial & charming. I have carefully studied up my route - & deem it best to take North Carolina on my return - so I shall scarcely expect to reach Charlotte by the last of nine - & this is mere guess-work. I shall make brief calls at two or three places in South Western That Helping Hand book, got so tied up immediately after it was issued, in a law suit yet feuding , in consequence of the break-up of the publishing firm that I have been unable to get my copies scince the Lus I first got & sent to sorters.

Page 2

Kentucky - at, Paris, Castalian Springs, Columbia & Pulaski, Tenn - at Florence, Ala - & then go direct to Shreveport, La to see the only surviving son of Col. Ths. Taylor, Sumter's right Laced Colonel - the son nearly 93 years old: Then I shall steer back- paming through hein & & Alabama, making some three calls - at Elyton, Talladega &Eutaw - thence into Georgia, calling at Decatur, Macon & Savannah -at the letter in Ges. Hirt. Soc. examing Ms. papers of Gen Jas. Jackson who served under Sumter at Blackstock's - thence perhaps to St Augustine to see - then to Charleston, where beside seeing an aged son of Col. Sam. Hammond who served much with Sumter - Iarih particularly to examine thoroughly a file of the old S.C. Gazette commencing

Page 3

wrtte the capture of Des Johnnes by Sumter away the Cherokees, in 1762, till the close ofthe Revolution; - then go among the Sumter relatives, & quite a number of places in So. Carolina - thence to Charlotte. The list looks formidable. I have some calls to make in Va & if too much time is not sonsumed I wish to stop in Washington & make some copies from Peunion office statements. I shall not think of going to Knoxville - on the whole - too much out ofthe way, & too little prospect of getting anything of moment. As to settling in the South, I am greatly at a loss as to

Page 4

what I had best to do. The truth is, my means are too small to live there without engaging in some sort of business - & if I so engage, I should be auable to go on with my historical labors. Here, even with broken health, I get my $1200 a year prompt pay & do not devote more than one fourth of my time to the Histl. Society's interests - leaving a generous margin of time to myself. But I will make the best observations when South I can. My original idea was - if I cd. set hold of a place near St Augustine, with one or two hundred orange trees in bearing the surplus fruit wd. help me eke out a living. I do not want again, if I sh. resuove to engage in any sort of business making me in theleast dependant on others - or even seemingly so. I shall avoid by the route I have chosen, any necessity for a cicerone. That wd. imply, I think a sort of lionizing - & I shrink from that - besides I am too small an animal to manufacture intod lion , even by implication. I dengu starting 1st. of May.-May Heaven kindly bless you & yours! Very Sincerely - Lyman C. Draper

