STANDARDNo. 307DIARY1921Counting=House Calendar.1921.THEStandard DiaryFOR SALE BY ALL STATIONERS.Published byTHE STANDARD DIARY COMPANY.2 SATURDAY, JANUARY 1, 1921 1[This entry is a continuation of the one from Sept. 1, 1921.]con. from page 24460 TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 1921rather pleasant. She seems to be rather quick of speach a bit set in her ways
					quite proud of her ability, and autho-rative in her manner - a bit dictetorial
					and most old maidish in her smile. It drops some ime like Miss Finleys when it
					starts up you think of some one supremely happy where it ends you think of some
					one who has dropped a hot potato. But with it all I think she is capable and I
					anticipate no great toubles.Miss Nixon is a young girl full of enthusiasm and willingness I believe she will
					make a success. She is jolly and full of fun. I cannot understand how a human
					can be so homely She is skinny with red hair (bobbed) and prominent teeth. Each
					one stand-ing out by itself. But such is life.Miss Bridgeman is very attractive, but very unhappy I think. I do not like Miss
					Wrights attitude toward her nor yet Miss Nixons. She has visualized Alaska and
					has not found it to be the land of her dreams. I wish there were some hep for
					that sort of[This entry is a continuation of the one from Sept. 1, 1921.]WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 1921 61thing. It is a great mistake to have three workers in a place. One is most always
					unhappy. There should be either two or four women.When I looked at my mail I found a letter from the Bishop which endorsed a letter
					in full which Mr Drane had written. He limits my work to the
					Tanana Valley from Tanana to Tanana Crossing. At Dranes advice - I suppose, and
					his crafty working forced it. he did not permit me to make the Arch-deacons
					rounds. I am disgusted and sore over the whole situation. I am also very
					surprised that the Bp. would endorse such an insultin gletter to any man.Mr Dranes letter was the most insulting letter I have ever
					received He gives no one I suppose any credit for intelegence. It was dictorial
					and authorative. Small in every deatail. I am sure he would or rather could
					never have told me the things he wrote in that letter. The days that no one[This entry is a continuation of the one from Sept. 1, 1921.]62 THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 1921can use drive his dog train but
					Mission boys so of course that means that I am at Miss Wrights pleasure In other
					words She is running the Tanana Valley Missions. There is going to be trouble if
					he returns to the field. I cannot think of such a supreme ass being int he
					ministry and I am heart sick at the thought of his taking the Archdeacons place.
					God grant him grace to and increase.He left his cabin which I had to come into a filthy mess. It looked as though he
					were coming back tomorrow but I should have been ashamed to enter it if I had
					left it so. For the sake of the work I hope he does not return, but that God
					will send some one to help.[This entry is a continuation of the one from Sept. 6, 1921.]Con. from page 249.FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1921 63We simply have to do the best we can and let it go at that. I told Ketzler that
					simply became I married them did not permit them to live against in the village. The
					Commissioner told him the same thing. I shall see to it that he does not live
					there at any time. It is both against the U.S. law of which men to live on an
					Indian Reservation as well as the native law.It was sad to bury little Samuel today. I hate to see the younger generation go
					for they are the only hope of the existance of a native race. It hurts worse to
					see them marry white men for then the problem of half breed children comes. It
					is the saddest and most difficult of all. I hope the races never amalgimate and
					I do not think they will even in years to come.The trouble with is that she is Bonita is that she is a Sheshitua native and the native
					people never mix tribes. none of the boys in the village will marry girls from
					other villages She really did not want to marry Dick K. but her old mother made
					her for the money that was in it for her.Luke Jimmy is in the village as drunk as he was seven years ago. John Paul
					was[This entry is a continuation of the one from Sept. 6, 1921.]64 SATURDAY, MARCH 5, 1921sober for once in his life and Justin Silas as fine looking as ever in here. He
					is a terrible husband but I hope he marries some one of the women in the village He has fine blood and in some
					respects high standards for a native.A big mail came in today. A good letter from Rosa a good letter from Capers Satterlee and others. I was
					glad to hear from home. Mildred is up at Mineral Springs for a rest.[This entry is a continuation of the one from Dec. 25, 1921.]6 SUNDAY, MARCH 6, 1921 65School house was full of people and Henry Thomas intreperted well. The offering
					was $2400 which I shall send to Bishop Rowe.This afternoon I spent in prayer and this evenig Miss Nixon gave three very
					beautiful tableaus on the annunciation and Shepherds and Kings. I had a few
					prayers and read the lesson of the annunciation.The gifts were then given out and the day is done. Thanks to God for his Gifts of
					blessing.My heart is heavy tonight I wish all were well, but I gues it cannot be.Dick O Hearne was up for dinner.See pg. 35982 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 1921[This entry is a continuation of the one from May 15, 1922.]Con. from Pg 135 Diary #2. 1922THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 1921 83Monday May 15th 1922Talked with her in her room in the Hosp. for 2 hours and 15 minutes until he
					arrived at 8:45.. When I saw her I was appalled and distressed at the agony and
					dispair her face showed. Her It was
					drawn and her eyes were sunken with blue circles. There were no tears, but utter
					helplessness and depression.She told me of the experience down town and all that had passed between them.
					Since her engagement. She did not know what to do. I advised and urged that she
					not marry him. The only conclusion was that she would not marry him if he were
					drinking.There were two men with him when he came. After they entered the door he tried to
					introduce them to me but was so intoxicated he could neither remember nor speak
					thier names. nor could he remember my name and we had to introduce
					ourselves.I told him I wanted to speak to him privately so we came over to the cabin.First I approached him on the matter of the license being signed[This entry is a continuation of the one from May 15, 1922.]84 FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 1921before the notary Republic with his signature attached. He then wantd to phone Mr
						Lecky to gain his consent. I
					told him It has to be signed in his presence with his signature attached.By this time we had came in to the Cabin and I told him that I could not marry a
					man who was intoxicated. and asked him if he had been drinking He said he was
					drunk the other night. Then I asked him if he had any today. That made him sore.
					He began to tell how he expected to treat Miss B. after he married her and how
					white he had been etc. I asked him again if he had had any today and he said no.
					I said well you are drunk now.Then he flew off and said he was going to take her anyway and marry her down town
					He began to argue religion and The Church, Roman Caholicism etc and said some
					very slanderous things about[This entry is a continuation of the one from May 15, 1922.]SATURDAY, MARCH 26, 1921 85Missionaries etc. After he had said his say with a good deal of retort from me
					indeed, for and some thing I stopped
					him in the midst of he went over to the Mission and talked with Miss W. then he
					tried to take Miss B. by forcing his way through Miss Nixons Room but Miss B did
					not show herself. I hoped every minute that Miss B. would stay out and tell him
					she would not marry him but here she failed again. And this failure will stick
					with her through life. She has not yet told him she would not marry him.Hr attitude towards me now is a most peculiar one. I think she blames me for not
					marrying them. She does not hardly speak to me.The funny thing was that she and Miss Nixon came over and said "it's
					all over with now" Poor simpletons they don't know that it has just
					begun.He told Miss W. that he was coming back to tell her what he thought[This entry is a continuation of the one from May 15, 1922.]86 SUNDAY, MARCH 27, 1921of her. He started to make a threat of my life. Indeed I shall never how until he lies down in his grace
					or I do one.I have wi I sent a wire to the Bp. and
					said that will you leave on
					Tuesday's train Miss B' affair needs immediate decision. I shall phone
					him this morning (for it is now 6:20 and I have watched all night.) and ask him
					his permission to go out on Wednesday's train. I hope he concents.We phoned Mr Hagan and told him the whole affair. He talked
					with Dr K. and Dr K. said he was through. I am glad he is and
					that Miss B. is saved future agony of satisfying his beastly passions without
					real love. or even if love were there.This has been a weary night of watching. Moses and had Johnnie went hunting and I have been filled to over
					flowing with anxious fears and anxieties never have I passed a move sorrowful
					and panful night but I am glad[This entry is a continuation of the one from May 15, 1922.]MONDAY, MARCH 28, 1921 87to have passed it, and thank God for His blessings.O Almighty God I beseech thee with my whole heart and soul to bless those Dear
					loved ones at Home to watch over us here and to Bless Moses, keep him from all
					sin and harm and to give him and to give him health safty, and happiness. The
					foundation of truth confidence and love; and to grant that I may take him to
					Hermon myself. Grant Dear Lord that I may be ordained before the Bishop leaves
					and that they work may please thee. Grant Moses Grace to hold fast to that to
					which thou has called him and to prosper his ministry among his people. Through
					Jesus Christ Our LordAmen156 SUNDAY, JUNE 5, 1921Knoxville. Hot with showers.This morning it was my privilege to assist Dr Whitaker at St
					John' Knox-ville in the celebration of the Holy Com-munion for the first
					time. I read the Epistle and administered the chalice. Rosa and Lena received.
						Dr Whitaker preached a good sermon on Education.
					Encouraging the people not only to send their sons to college and emphesizing
					the importance a college education, but urging them to support the U.T. by
					sending their sons there. I felt the sting as I sat there and thought how old
					Sewanee was crying out for good men. In his an-nouncements he said he was going
					to a meet-ing of the Board of Trustees and would be away next Sunday. Someday my
					hearts desire will be granted and Sewanee will ride high. A visit to Mildreds
					found her suffering with rhumatism. We took Lena home and Mildred and Bob &
					children stayed for supper. Dr Whitakers Evenig Sermon was on
					"The Salt of the Earth" We have salt with in us and our good
					influences should extend to others. Wrote Bill Stony Bill Holden, Mr Butch Prayers,
					Bible Reading, Bed earlyMONDAY, JUNE 6, 1921 157Knoxville.A couple of hours in the garden makes me feel better and gives us quite a nice
					little farm in our back yard. A visit to Mildred's makes my heart go out to
					one who loves her children with her whole heart and soul. and is doing every
					thing possible to train her children and bring them up with every advantage
					possible. May God grant that they may have the thorough advantage education She desires them
					to have and to develop in to the Christian manhood and womanhood She sacrifices
					and strives for she is a wonder-ful and sweet mother and companion to them and
					the ways in which we fail in life God will help us with, that those will we love may grow in grace and
					increase physically, mentally, and spiritually. I hope she may live long that
					they may grow up under her loving care and attention. She hopes to have her
					house enlarged and she needs the room. Please God her health will increase that
					she may do those things she is so desirous of doing and be happy and prosperous.
					One with out children probably does not realize what it means to have them but I
					love them all dearly, and wish them health and prosperity.158 TUESDAY, JUNE 7, 1921Knoxville.It is a great satisfaction to see Roy and his two dear little girls growing up
					and doing so well. With his home paid for and his efforts. and success to live a
					godly christian life giving a tenth part of his earnings and Ruth devotion and
					her desire and success to serve and help him makes me very hapy. He has a nice
					garden and his bees are doing well. Nothing is as much of a satisfaction as to
					see some one with a hobby to interest them and with Roys earnestness and ability
					he will make a great success with his bees. Some day he will rise to the top of
					his profession, instead of head bookeeper I hope he will be a president of some
					bank. If deadly war and destruction comes agan Howard too will rise to the top
					of his propension and be a general instead of Lieut. Colonol I earnestly desire
					the prosperity and success of my family for I love them and ambitious for them. MiA The Godly devotion and loving
					Christian spirit of my dear mother and the deep love and anxious care of my dear
					father none of us can help but do our best for their honor and sake. May God
					bless and help them always.WEDNESDAY, JUNE 8, 1921 159Knoxville.Mamma and I have anticipated our trip to Sewanee all day and thought we would
					start off tomorrow but a telegram from Mrs Preston started us
					off tonight instead. I knew my gruk had not kirns finished but did not expect Mr Hasket Du
					Bose to flunk me in Hebrew. That Hebrew is horrible stuff when it comes to
					learning it. and unfortunately Mr Du B. does not know how to
					teach it. It seems too bad that Sewanee has to suffer so much from its low
					stand-ard of proffesors. There are many things wrong with Sewanee many things of
					vital importance to be corrected, but in many ways it is the most wonder-ful
					place in the world. I love it and will always do what I can for it. There is
					much to be done. I am glad that Mamma can be there with me for a few days. She,
					I feel sure will enjoy it though the life there is very different from any she
					is use to. I am sorry the train is crowded and that she must be so uncomfortable
					and have to get up at 3:30 in the morning, but she is a good sportThis should be under 22nd Sept. I think.160 Supp. 265. THURSDAY, JUNE 9,
					1921+28 at 11:00Nenana Warm and Cloudy.The changeable weather that comes right at this time one feels very much. I shall
					like it better when it turns cold and stays that way.This morning I went down town and found the cross form getting on well. It will be ready for the next
					boat. Just how I shall pay for it I do not know. It is going to cost a good deal
					I am afraid. Not that I am not willing to give anything I can, but I
					can't.This afternoon I studied a bit and then finished digging out the sellar. I feel a bit of conscience
					about studying and writing so little but soon I shall surely have more time for
					it. There is a good deal of Fall work to be done.This evening a couple of things have happened that make me feel a bit
					uncomfortable with Miss Wright. She has asked to see Mr
					Dranes letter to me and I do not think it wise I shall not show it to her I
					think. Then she and Miss Nixon came over laughing at Miss B. and the Dr I went
					over and asked them to kull down
					their shade. It do the beginng I
						tranklSee pg. 28712 FRIDAY, JUNE 10, 1921 161+28 at 8:00Nenana cloudyThis morning I up wrote several
					letters to Fairbanks but got them in the office too late to get them in todays
					mail, and I am sorry.This afternoon I prepared my sermon for Sunday and opened up the set of books
					with Miss Nixons kind help. I have a special set for St Mark's and shall
					get another set for other missions when business requires.Moses worked on the pump but we lack pipe so it is necessary to get it from
					Fairbanks unless the lot
					missions has some.This is Miss Bridgeman's birth day so we came out in full dress. The first
					time for me since the last dance at Sewanee. It seemed good to get into the old
					clothes again.A telegram came from Dr Burke sanc-tioning the building of the
					cross at the Archdeacon's Grave by the workers who knew him. I am glad for
					it will give us all such pleasure.We shall soon start the studies, Moses and I. I am very anxious to get at them. I
					love that boy Moses and want to do something for him162 SATURDAY, JUNE 11, 1921SUNDAY, JUNE 12, 1921 163164 MONDAY, JUNE 13, 1921Sewanee Very Hot.One year ago today the Archdeacon was with us and the Alumni Corperate Communion
					was an happy occasion. Today had a touch of deep sorrow and yet a joy to feel
					that he was with us in Spirit. The tablet we hoped to unveil in his Blest memory
					did not arrive in time and now it will not be unveiled until Founders Day 10th October 1921. After a brief service on the chapel we
					marched in procession to the Sun Dial which was dedicated by Bp. Ywery and a talk by Miss Sarah
					Barnwell Elliotte told how Old Forensic was built and what became of it. I thought how The A.
					would like to have heard her. We then marched in procession to the stone where
					stood St Augustines Chapel stood where the A. was ordained This noon we phoned
					Rosa so she could send Bp G's ordination sermon. FondRoas Papa & Mildred sick. I am
					worried about Mildred and pray God she will soon be well again. We then called
					on Mrs DuBose Mrs Fred Bown.Then we visited the S.M.A. The
					Delta Banquet was at 6:00 p.m. Gardner Tucker read The Poem about The A. written
					by Mr Louis Tucker a Delta I talked and at 10:00 choahthe more werds went with me to Prowler Ball
					the best ever The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.given at Sewanee. This was 4:15 A.M. Prayer & to bed.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 1921 165Sewanee Very HotThe Dance kept us up until 4:15 A.M. Then Mr DuBose had a
					special service for us who were leaving for good. I rose at 6:30 after 1 3/4
					hours of sleep. Several friends came to the Service. Dr & Mrs Wells, Dr & Mrs Benedict, Mrs Wade, Mrs Hale, MrMcGloon Ellis Bearden, Bp &
						MrsReese and others. Pearce Hel06ms
					and I knelt in the middle during special prayers. Then I thought of the
					Archdeacon. After the service as we knelt there all the Prof's shook hands
					with us. At 10:00 the procession formed for graduation exercises and we marched
					from Walch to the chapel. I
						cord the cross es through the year and as last
					year. 19 in the class for graudation with two G.B. and one M.A. made an imjussion class. MrNoma Dans Mr Williams, suh sec
					of state, Bp. Beaty, and Garden Tucker
						reed. DCh. and DD-degrees. Bearden gave me a B.A. Hood. Gladys Fry
					came down and Mama & I called on her in the afternoon and Mu Deacons Graham and her sister. A
					diligent search for my surplice took considerable time and a visit with
					Charlotte Marie with a bit of time for runing around I got to be late. tired and sleepy. To rise early for Braekfast at Mrs West. She has been lovely and very kind to Mamma. I think
					Mamma is enjoying her visit here and I am glad. It is a great joy and
					satisfaction to know I have my degree166 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 15, 1921Sewanee Very Hot.A pleasant shower has cooled off each day It is with a light heart that I
					received the congratu-lations of so many friends on my ordination and
					graduation. One of the most pleasant happenings of the year has been the Seniors
					Breakfast givn by Mrs Eggleston She is sweet and thoughtful and very kind. Mamma went up
					at noon today to spend the night with Gladys and Josephine Fry at Mont Eagle. This afternoon Charlotte
					Maine and I went calling then at 4:20 I went to Mont Eagle after doing a little packing. I was Mrs Wests guest for dinner and then a little more packing and
					to the Red dance with Charlotte. It was a peppy dance & I enjoyed it but the
						serius side was crudely
					handled by this "brillient" society. We danced until 3:30 then I took
					her home. I went back to say good bye to some of the boys and finished packing
					until time to meet Mama at 7:10 after breakfast I packed some more then Mama
					& I called on MrsPeston & Mrs Benedict s calld on
						Mr m Soda Elliott, Bp
					Knight, and met DrBenedictBasn on the way. One leip breath brought a good wish and
					he walked away. Many good wishes follow me and the prayers of those friends at
					Sewanee which I have so happily found. My prayers and good wishes are with them.
					Their friendship has been helpful and good.THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 1921 167Sewanee & KnoxvilleThe latter part of the previous day
					page is for to day. As I did not get to bed it is only natural that I should not
					have written up the Diary until another day passed and thor, that it should run on with out
					the thought that a night intervend with out notice in the writing. Saying good by to my
					friends and loved over its
						ewance was a hard thing, but I am glad to be on my way to the
						furwith. We rode down to
					Chatt with Charlotte Mane, MrsSatterler, Dre Cook and other
					boys. From then on I had a slupy
					and long ride home. I was glad to see Mildred well enough to meet us at the
					train. It did not take long for me to get a bite to eat and to get to bed. Upon
					my arrival I found the picture of the Archdeacon which Bill sent to Miss Stuck
					returned from N.Y. I also found a telegram annoucing my a ppointment to Alas ka
					as Missionary. I look forward to my return with glad anticipation. This has been
					an eventful year and I am very happy over it. Many times I have prayed for God
					to hasten the day to my return and alas it has come Thank God.168 FRIDAY, JUNE 17, 1921KnoxvilleThose sleepless nights at Sewanee kept me in bed from 9:00 P.M. last night until
					3:00 this afternoon. I am still sleepy. My four boxes and trunk came with out
					any excess charges and I am glad for I am out of money and have a month to go. A
					letter from Mr Betticher bore the word that I am to leave New
					York on the 28 July and sail from Seattle on the 6th August I
					am glad I shall have a little extra time at home. Instead of leaving on the 6th July from here I shall leave on the 15th spend 4 days in Wash. Four in Phila. and 4 in N.Y. Mr Bettic sent me five carbon copies of Bp. Gailors serm at time of my ordination It was
					very in cor-rectly taken down I am sorry to say and I am sorry. Mildred Bob and
					the children wer over tonight.
					This after noon I met a very nice boy by the name of Boon from Boon-ville Tenn.
					"Daniel" thy call him. He was with Tilda Walker I hass much writing and reading to do and I
					shall soon get at it now. Prepration for my priests examinations will require
					much hard work I hope it will be possible to be advanced on St Andrews Day
					1921.SATURDAY, JUNE 18, 1921 169Knoxville, Tenn. Hot with Showers.It was a pleasure to work a couple of hours in Mother Garden today and I heard
					the garden cry out "Thank you" as I left it. A few of Kiplings Ballads
					took another hour and on my way from town I bought that book I have wanted for
					so long from Dwieghts' shop. The Heart of Christ by E. H. Sears. Marked 50
					cents but I got it for 25 cents. It is in flowery language but delightful
					reading. The first chapt. on the "Super-natural" or Eternity It sets for the the naronahdueas of it and the meri tihta-itity of it. Dr Whitaker is going to make me out a list of the necessary
					books to take to Alaska with me. I shall also write to Mr
					DuBose for a list- These I must secure from second hand shops in Phila. and N.Y.
					as yet I have not a cent. Please God something will come in. I have just
					finished writing to Carl Wheat and to Walter. I look forward with glad
					an-ticipation to Boyatesing
					Walter and his family next Sunday morning. My courtant prayers and good wishes are with them. Prayer
					& to bed.170 SUNDAY, JUNE 19, 1921Knoxville very hot.Early service at 7:30 and morning prayer at 10:30. It was very privilege to
					assist at this lutter service
					and I enjoyed wearing my B.A. hood for the first time. I am grateful to Ellis
					Bearden for giving me this at my graduation. Dr Whitaker is a
					great preacher and a learned man, a student and a scholar. He is going to make
					out a list of books for me to get and carry to Alaska with me to study for my
					priests examinations. I have written to Dr Mr DuBose asking him to make
					me a list also. I have written to Mr & Mrs Fry thanking them for the pen and appealing once again to them for
					money that I may have enough to buy those books and to buy clothes with. It will
					take at least $200.00 I shall need many clothes as I have nothing and should
					like also to get some bedding There are a few things in that line I shall have
					to have. Mammas cold is better and Mildred too is better. Poor old
					"Mammy" Rose is quite sick with the flux. I here do
						so a great deal of it around. I pray Gods blessings on the work I
					am to take up and upon those people I love. I look forward with glad
					anticipation to my return to the Far North.MONDAY, JUNE 20, 1921 171Knoxville, Hot.The garden pulled me out early this morning. I am glad to have a garden to work
					in and shall miss it when I am gone. I have conceived the plan of tearing out
					the partition between the kitchen and library to make a large dining room. build
					a kitchen and pantry with steps up stairs to a sleeping poarch over the kitchen
					and pantry and down to the basement-inside steps- and cut off the back hall for
					a bath room off of the present dining room to make a bedroom and bath for Mamma
					and Papa so they won't have to trot up and down so many steps. may it
					please God to grant that I may and make it possible. It will help Mother so
					much. There too then will be a back poarch all the way across the back. I am
					eager to make things as light and easy as possible for them before I go. We
					drove out to Woodlawn Cemetary, Mother and I, this afternoon with Aunt Sally and
					Nena to visit Uncle Franks grave and to look at an extra lot she has. It is
					beautiful and quite out there and the lot is lovely. I hope I can by it it for
					she needs the money to pay her debts and I am anxious to prepare a place should
					it be my The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.sorrow and missfortune to lose any of my family while I am away May it please God
					to grant me this alas.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.172 TUESDAY, JUNE 21, 1921Knoxville Cooler.After long hours of sleep this morn-ing I finished my sermon for Sunday. Then
					this afternoon I assorted papers to take to Alaska with me, and then Rosa and I
					made a call at the Millers. Kleber has two sweet little girls. I met Joe Demny and John Marable in town. John
					is taking a course in Summer School with N.J. It bring back old Sewanee to my heart and I wish I could go
					back once more before I return tot he Frigid North. Pearl brought home the
					articles to be sent to the Spirit of Missions. Living Church, Churchman, and
					Souther Churchman and The Witners. I hope Bp. Gailor sees fit to ask them to
					write edi-torials. My hopes run high for the raising of $10,000.00 which will
					serve as endowment and as well The Momenrial to the Dear Archdeacon. I hope as soon as I can get
					back from Warthing I shall be able to write up all my correspondence. I have
					plenty to do. I had intended to have dinner with Kenneth tonight and to spend
					the night with him, but he had a tooth pulled yesterday and was quite sick to.
					day. The time until my departure flies by rapidly now. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.I talked tonight at the Peoples Tabence cle
						on Alas face. They are doing a great work there for those poor
					souls.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.WEDNESDAY, JUNE 22, 1921 173Knoxville.I am finding some time to reread the Archdeacons last book on Alaskan Missions-
					The History. It is fascinating and thought of those heroic pioneers fills me
					with anticipation and joy. I am glad that I have gotten as far along as I have
					even to serve in the "Inferior" office of Deacon. I thank God for His
					mercy and Blessing that He has been pleased to call me and has counted me worthy
					to servethin I hope I shall move
					more worthy and capable as time goes on. I hope I shall better please Him with
					my life and work. I am glad to be counted one of the pioneers of That Great
					Alaskan work. A card from Bill Holden assures me that he is having a good time
					with Ben Studerant on his boat
					try and camp on the at McMinnville
					Tenn. Bill is a fine boy with character and manhood. God be with him and deliver
					him out of his distress. I hope he can visit me here at home and I hope that I
					shall always be able to keep in touch with him. A number of callers came in
					tonight Mildred, Inela, and the
					Miller Family. I hope to see Mr Clarke to-morrow. Gods
					Blessing upon my family.174 THURSDAY, JUNE 23, 1921Knoxville, Extremely Hot.Fine thing this morning saw me in
					the garden but I am afraid while I am in Warthing the werds will get another hold. My boxes
					are ready now to be packed. I am eager to get to my desk and cor-respondence
					There is plenty to be done. Mrs Harris will write to Bp.
					Gailor about the quotation from Tennyson in my or-dination sermon. I had the
					pleasure of congratulating Prof. Lowery this afternoon. After making a
					sweltering attempt to copy my sermon I went out to Mrs Irwins
					to a most delicious dinner and spent a happy evenig sing hymns and talking on
					intellectual subjects. It is a marvelous thing to see this great world make its
					rapid change in to Christian feeling and brotherly love. With its rapid movement
					in our great aties and the
					hurried life we live there is a softening. there is a heart felt philan-thropic
					wave blowing over the whole earth Thank God. And it is not altogether organized
					charity, but real. Mildred, Bob, and Roy were here to-night. As I think of the
					numerous things I left at Sewanee I think I shall The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.have to go back again And how I should love to see my friends there again.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.FRIDAY, JUNE 24, 1921 175Knoxville.We were up at 4:30 to make ready to go down to Walters to spend a few days. The
					buss left the Service Garage at 6:30. The ride was most pleasant with Mamma.
					especially as far as Oliver Springs, for there we had to change to a smaller
					buss which was more tiresome It was pleasant though as Mamma seemed to enjoy it
					so. Walter met us and we drove over to the house which was clean and the
					children were so clean and happy. Lola said very sweetly "Roses on my
					shoulders and slippers on my feet etc." It makes my heart sick to see them
					in such a terrible condition a helpless poverty. It is impossible too to keep
					keep the flys out of the old log cabin. May God be pleased to send them help
					from above. I wish I had money enough to buy it from them at a big price and use
					it later for a summer home for the family wen if I never get a chance to live on it myself.We sat up - Walter, Pearl and I - and talked on things religious and about
					Baptism and the church. I am very happy that they are soon to give themselves to
					Christ in the Sacrement of Holy Baptism.176 SATURDAY, JUNE 25, 1921Walter's House returrn
					Oakdale & Wartburg.After a late head fast Walter and
					I pitched and loaded a wagon of hay. I killed a Hack snake. Then too we dug some
					potatoes. This afternoon we drove over to Wartburgs to meet Papa, but he could not come. I phoned him, am
					sorry he could not come up for the baptism. He would have joined the trip and
					the service. We were late getting home, but I went to bed early and had a good
					much needed rest. The farm is in good shape now, and looks mighty pretty. But
					Walter must get him and the
					place for bed rock in this palce is much too near the service. Fertalizer does
					little good. Should not be able to spend the rest of my life in Alaska as I hope
					to do for God's work and saler I should like to spend a year or two on the farm to build
					up and just have a garden and cows etc for my flwurh one can never tell how long one can stand the
					rigors of the frigid north. The fact that Walter's farm was my dear mothers
					birth place makes a s attaches a
					sentiment to the place that makes me want to keep it in our name and possession
					to her dear honor.13 SUNDAY, JUNE 26, 1921 177Walters House & Uncle Ed Hydle'As we came home last night Mr Ley-man asked us to come over
					for dinner to-day so Walter, Pearl and the children, Marmie and I spent the afternoon there. We drove over to
					Wartburg where I had service in the Presbyterian Church and had the privilege of
					baptising Walter Irwin Tatum, Martha Pearl, Walter Irwin (Jr.) Lola May, and
					Eula Amelia. My first baptisms since my ordination and it made me veryvery happy. I am sure now that their lives will be more happy
					and prosperous. There is a true change of heart and mind. They love God, trust
					Him and believe in Him. And were happy to confess Him before Christ before the
					large congregation gathered there. I fixed an altar with the small cross that
					Johnnie Fred made for me. and had a short service combining the two baptismal
					services for Iuponts and thou
						grives years and Evening
					Prayer. and preached my first sermon on the necessity of Prayer. Text taken from
					the 22 Verse 21 Chap. of St. Matthew. And all things what so ever shall as be in
					Prayer, believing, ye shall receive. I pray God's blessings upon them
					continually and know God will make them humble and pure in heart and prosper
					them. After the Service John Freetag drove me over to Uncle Eds173 MONDAY, JUNE 27, 1921Uncle Ed. Hydel.Five o'clock was a bit too soon for a sleepy man and his mother to arise
					after a late service and long ride the night before with plenty of talking after
					we got here last night. On our way to the church last night we stopped at Aunt
					Louises' house and found Adolph Frutag very low with typhoid fever. We had a pleasant visit with
					him but short. Uncle Ed. took me all over the farm and this farm is a wonder.
					Creek bottom and fertile. It makes me long the more for a creek or river bottom
					farm for Walter. He is in some distress and dire need. Uncle Ed. is rich and
					prosperous but in a way does not at all appreciate what it means. We left there
					at 12:00 M. on the Buss and suffered the long and tiresome journey reaching
					Knoxville at 4:30. for $1.85. Mr A M Fitts at Petros asked me
					to send him a peace of a power which it was my pleasure to do. My mail brought
					the sad news of Bertha's serious illness. She is now in the College
					Hospital in Philadelphia. In the same mail I received my clergy perfi certificate of the Western
					Bureau. Tonight I sent telegrams to Bertha, and Lamb Co. acknowledging the
					Tablet tot he Archdeacon.TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 1921 179Knoxville.Pearl Marcum brought home the letters which were mailed to Bp. Gailor. I hope the
					Hudson Stuck Memorial Scholar ship is going to be a success. I plan soon to go
					out to Mildreds for several days. I have spent little time with her and wish I
					could spend more. She is a sweet Girl and a wonderful mother. And those children
					are fine- I hope too, during the short time that I have left to write some of
					the seventy five letters I have. Acknowledgements of gifts and other letter that
					I must write. Some business and some personal. My friends are kind to write me
					when I write them so seldom. These past years in school have been full years but
					after all quite happy. For happier days I look to Alaska. Those people I love
					and the work there. There is where my heart is for my work but home here holds
					the dearest place of all, and no other can fill it. May God be with my dear
					mother father and family.180 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 29, 1921Knoxville and Wartburg.A telephone message from August Frietag brought me hurridly back to thir lovely gueet little German
					settlement here in the Cumberland Mountain. Filled with sentiment and devotion
					because my dear Mother's relatives live here and here abouts. And Mother
					her self was done and spent her early life just four miles from here. Cousin
					Adolph Frietag age 35 years. Aunt Lan's and Uncle Dave's oldest son died this morning at
					six oclock. Never have I seen a sadder loss. No, not anywhere. For the family
					were absolutely and utterly devoted to each other They were bound heart and soul
					to each other by brotherly love and affection of the tenderest and gentlest
					sort. But even in the midst of their deep & tragic sorrow there seems to be
					a strain of joy, for they
					realize that "he is not dead, but liveth" It makes my heart ache to
					see them mourn and sorrow, so far I love them. The Hand of the Lord is heavy
					upon them and sorrow has touched their hearts but God is merciful, Loving and
					Kind and does not willingly afflict the children of men The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.He will not leaven their
					comforters, and I pray each passing hour that He will comfort and bless
					them.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 1921 181Wartburg.Last night I watched with him that slept and tonight shall watch. Julia, John
					August, Grover, Aunt Lou and Unce Dave are restingrested quetty last night but
					Mary cannot could not sleep. Neither can Rosa sleep Rosa came this
					afternoon. She also is taking it very hard. I was not able to be here when she
					came. This morning I sat in the room with Adolph until the Buss came then
					brought down the flowers I ordered from Dailys. Then I had lunch with Cousin
						Birty and walked over to
					Walters. He was on his way over when I met him with Pearl. I spent the afternoon
					with them and got back about 6:30 to sit up the night with them. Walter and
					Pearl wanted to sit up in necessary but there was a large crowd. Julia and Rosa
					could not sleep. and poor John is sitting asleep in a chair. This last night
					adds grief and and they are heavy with sorrow. My prayers and deepest Sympathy
					are with them. Aunt Annie and Aunt Pauline are here It is good to see all of
					Mother's sisters for the first time since I can remember. Uncle Dave has
					asked me to assist in the Service to-morrow, and take the part at the home Mr Taylor
					will take the part at the Grave. It will be a hard day and my prayers and
					deepest The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.sympathy is with them.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.For record of death see pg. 189182 FRIDAY, JULY 1, 1921Wartburg.I have never known a sadder day than this. It grieves me to tears to see them so
					full of sorrow and distress. I was able to talk with Grover a bit last night and
					to John now and then. Mr Taylor came at twelve oclock. I
					feared that he could not get here and prepared a little talk which might have
					been comforting and helpful on Let not your heart be troubled, ye nehive is God believe also in
					me." There was a large crowd here with my Vestments on I read through the
					lesson with some prayer and sang "My Fourth Losts Up to Thee" two verses. Then we marched in
					pro-cession to the grave. Mr T. and I in front of the casket
					and the family following blind
					with the multitude of friends. I am sorry thy opened the casket at the grave to
						barrow their feelings. It
					would not have been so th tragic had
					not Taylor delivered such a heart rending, harrowing talk, repeating over and
					over like a phonograph the most heart breaking phrases. actually telling them
					that he worked himself to death for his family. Please God us out will preach in my funeral, for
					such as that is inhuman and cruel, hide
						Dave asked him not to talk but poor Dam fool if a minister of the Gospel can be called that,
					could not help it. He was just ignorant and simple. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.He layed down on the ground with his hat on while I was having a prayer. Thats
					his reverence.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.SATURDAY, JULY 2, 1921 183Walters House and KnoxvilleAfter the funeral I came home with Walter and Pearl. Tired and sleepy. We have walked around a bit and I went
						home to bed early. This morning
					we drove over to Wartburg and I had lunch at Fre-tags. Missed the buss by 2 1/2 mnts and came home on
					the train. It was hard to say good by to Walter & Pearl and to the Freitags
					especially to Grover and John. I seem to have gotten right near them. and I love
					them all. On my way home I met a Mason Wm. Gray from Bristol. He was broke and
					it was my privilege and pleasure to help him out to the extent of four dollars
					all I had. Tonight I feel very sad on I think of those who are sad and broken hearted up there. They
					are lovely tonight, and I am sorry. They are hard working earnest and devoted
					people. I wish I could do something for them to make them happy. Adolph left a
					wife and four children. a girl and boy 9 yers old. Troin. another about 7 and another about five, the boy
					is only four months old. The boys are going to see that the children are
					provided for and that Adolphs camp is in the Face. This added work will make it hard for them but they are
					glad to do it. I Husns184 SUNDAY, JULY 3, 1921Knoxville. Shade. 92째 F.All day the Fre-tags and
					Walters' family have been on my heart and mind. It was my privilege to read
					the Epistle and to administer the cup at 11:00 o'clock service this
					morning. Kenneth and MrsRovey were there much to my
					surprise. We hoped that they might be over this afternoon. Roy and his family
					were here for dinner, and Lena, Mildred and her family were over in the
					afternoon. I returned the cross of the Epiphany. Mamma and I went out then to
					service to night and we were glad to see Mr and Mrs Hopper again. He preached a very good sermon on Love.
					Katherine Lealand was there and said she was going to make me a set of Commuion
					Linens for my use when I am ordained Priest next year. Mamas foot is giving her
					a good deal of trouble and I am worried about it. She does not all walk easily. The time is very
					short now until I go back to the Far North. I wish it were a bit longer. This
					afternoon Roy and I packed my books with so little room for them. Pearl Maron is going to give me another
						then of shelns to carry with
					me. Hiriam Douglas was The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.ordained to-day so I sent him a telegram. I wish I could have been with him.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.MONDAY, JULY 4 185Knoxville F. 94째 shadeMy absence for so long a time got me up at five this morning to work in the
					garden. I am afraid I am not much of a farmer for I am slow at hand and do not
					accomplish too much in the time given. A letter to Miss Wight-man, Bp. Gailor, Fred Hard,
					Bertha, Aunt Low and Uncle Dan and family, Miss Booth, and Dr
					Wood asking for my expenses to N.Y. filled a good part of the afternoon. Rosa,
					Pearl, & Mildred and her family went up to Wilewood Springs to spend the day. Mildred came back
					over tonight as Cristie and Kenneth came over. Bertha Haws is ill again and in
					the hospital I am afraid she will never be well. Poor soul she has had a hard
					time. After she left we discussed Walter and his family and delt too strong in personalities I am
					afriad. It is very hard not to be quilty of the same strongs we accuse others of and we in our family are so tactless
					and thought-less. I hope I have not hurt my dear Mothers feelings I should
					rather die first The time is growing short now for me to go I hate to think of
					it. I look forward The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.to a visit from Bill Holden tomorrow.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.186 TUESDAY, JULY 5, 1921Knoxville 90째Five thirty saw me up and working in the garden this morning. Then, I dressed and
					went to the station to meet Bill Holden. The train came in a bit before eight so
					that he was at the out side walking
					around. After break-fast we went down tot he Riverside Lumber Co. and ordered
					another set of bookcases which Pearl wants to give me before I go to Alaska I
					need them and they will be of great service to me in the North. We walked around
					town and out to the park in the morning. Bill is one fine boy and would make a
					splendid minister of the Gospel. This Evenig we went to "Lows" and saw
					an Alaskan pesture and some good
					commedians. Rosa, Pearl, Bill and I. Bill and I had a good talk after we went to
					bed. I told him of my experience at Wartburg and what it has meant to me. The
					fact that I have always more or less prided myself on being friend to rich and
					poor also but I really never
					realized what it was until I went down ther and found a place in the life and effections of those whose
					life was one of alter diet was
					for each member of the family. and nothing made any difference save the soul. It
					makes me happy to see Bill put his trust and confidence in God alone and to turn
					absolutely to Him.WEDNESDAY, JULY 6, 1921 187Knoxville 90%Five was early to rise and work in the garden this morning after breakfast I went
					to the dentist and DrMerundy instructed me how to
					care for my teeth in the cold North. Often masaging and brushing of the teeth.
					Nitrate of Silver solution 10% application in case of sensitivenlas, and in case of abcess
					to cut a raisin in half and lay it on the gum will bring it to a head. I had a
					long talk with Cristy-MrsRoweg-about Dorothy and her
					welfare. I shall try to talk with Dorothy when I go to bila she says that Bertha has ulsers in the stomach
					and will probably never be well. I am sorry for she is a sweet girl of the very
					highest type. Her life has been filled with distress, sickness, and sorrow.
					Kenneth went off to Grand Rapids, Mich. to. day and I am sorry I did not see him
					to say good bye. Hopper came over to-day and asked me to talk at the Epiphany
					Sunday night at a farewell service for me. I am happy over this though I did not
					want to talk more before I returned to Alaska. When Bill and I went to the bank
					to day for a sum we saw a little
					boy who was nearly drowned. The
					Ambulance came out with pumps and I hope they can save him. It was hard to see
					and Bill go away to Memphis tonight.188 THURSDAY, JULY 7, 1921Knoxville shower. 92째The farm hoxas for book cases
					came today and I am very happy to have them. In town this morning I met Mildred
					and we bought some cups and sauces
						Dcove to Alaska with me. Tomorrow I shall go out to spend the day
					with her. I wrote to Willie Sums and sent him a check for Mollie and Anderson
					that amt. to $1000. I may have to go to Sewanee next Monday.
					Hate to spend the money and time which is so short now. Also wrote Cousin Margie
					and Cousin Alice, Mrs HF Preston Mrs
					Douglas and Hiram Johnne Fred and Mr Betticher. Had a talkw
					ith Dr Whitaker and he said for me to open up the Akens and use the invocation and
						as cryption in regular
					services. I gave him the names and dates of Baptism a Walter berd family for registration and shall soon
					give him Adolphs burial for
					registration. After I returned home I wrote a sermon for Sunday night on O All
					ye frost and snow bless ye the Lord Praise Him and exalt Him above all for ever.
					My second sermon and a farewell at the Epiphany churchFRIDAY JULY 8, 1921 189Knoxville Hot with Shower.I had hoped to work in the garden today as my time is growing so short, but I
					work last night on my talk to be given at the Epiphany Sunday night. Dr Whitaker went over tonight and gave me back the sermon
					given at Wartburg on the 26 th June corrected. He suggested
					that I emphasise the "belief" in my test "all things whatsoever ye believe ask in prayer
					"believingU" ye shall receive". Then he said to express the
						retation of prayer to the
					family life. Fank In the family with
					the heavenly Father as head, the faith between one another is the creed. The
					order is the commandments, and the communion one with another is prayer (The
					Lords). Then again Prayer is an art of religion I gave Dr
					Whitaker the record of Adolph Martin Frutags Death at Wartburg 29 June burried Wartburg Cemetary 1st July 1921 Age 35 years. Recorded 9R July in St
					John's parish Register. Knoxville Tennessee. Am spending a couple of days
					with Mildred and it is a Blessed privilege to be in her house. She is a sweet
					lovely girl and a wonderful mother of three dear children Robert Armstrong Jr,
					Amelia Jeanner, and Sarah
					Elizabeth. My God bless her family and give them long happy lives190 SATURDAY, JULY 9, 1921Knoxville Cool with ShowersWe went up town with Bob and I planted six rows of potatoe for Mamma or bile Mildred went to market and the Dr Emory Rogers
					a Kyropractic. He seems to be doing her a world of good and she has a good deal
					of confidence in him. She will I hope take little Robert that he may grow
					stronger and feel better. Most of the after noon I studied my address It seems
					that I have not much of a mind for memorizing. Mildred and I went out to
						Hetty Tillies to see Aunt
					Sally. She is quite broken in her old age after Uncle Frank's death without
					a home just east about. It is pretty hard for her and she feels it. A letter
					came from Dr Wood today with a check for my travel-ing
					expenses to N.Y. $40.00. I shall have to pay my own freight
					expenses and have to have some money. I am neslord to go to Sewanee and Mont Eagle Monday night to raise
					some money for I am stripped. While Bob went to town Mildred played and I sang
					some of the old songs we use to sing together. Eternal Rest by a Hovepool and O Jesus Thou Art
					Standing by Adam Geibel and Madrienne by Marion Lee with others. I thoroughly
					enjoyed it.SUNDAY, JULY 10, 1921 191Knoxville Hot & Showers.There have been two happy days spent with Midlred and her family and I am glad I
					could spend them with them in such a happy home. She is doing all she can in
					every way for her dear children. I went to St John's and enjoyed my last
					service there that I shall attend for three years hence. I felt deeply
					disappointed that Dr Whitaker showed so little sympathetic
					interest in my going away. No mention at all was made of it and no invitation
					was given to the Congregation to attend the farewell service given in my honor
					at the Epiphany But this is all characteristic of Dr
					Whitaker. His interest in Alaska I felt is not, and I am sorry. I practiced at St John's on my
					address with te.t "O, All
					Ye Front and Cold, Bless Ye The Lord. Praise Him and Exalt Him above all
					forever." I tried to make the people feel that mosnters of the Gospel have no soft and Easy; ohn and I talked of
					the work in Alaska a bit. They kindly gave the offering to me which I shall use
					to go to Also Sewanee and Mont Eagle
					with tomorrow night. Mildred and her family were over to dinner today and It was
					fine to have them with us.192 MONDAY, JULY 11, 1921Knoxville. to Sewanee & Mont Eagle.I am resolved to go to Sewanee and Mont Eagle tonight to raise some money for
					clothes and freight. I am desperate when I find I have nothing with which to buy
					warm clothing to wars in the
					frigid North The heart of that Board of Missions is as cold as the North itself.
					It is rolling in wealth and it
					sends out its workers to live in poverty How long will God keep still silence.
					"All things whatsoever ye ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive."
					Varily I believe that God will send His help. When I think of my dear brother in
					absolute poverty and his children receiving no education it make my heart ache.
					And I feel I should not go away but help him. May God send His help.I had the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Cole, Donald Coles, mother from New. Rochell
					N.Y. She is coming down to see Donald who is quite ill from a wound he received
					while in France. She is a trained nurse and a charming woman. I like her. As I
					lie here in my birth I feel God near and I know He will give these things
						but for me.TUESDAY, JULY 12, 1921 193Sewanee.It seems strange and wonderful that I should set foot on this ground that seems
					almost Holy to me. I love these people here. Freddie Hard my friend took me to
						MrsGahlir house to breakfast after
					I walked up the Mountain and had a good shower. at 8:35 I went on up to Mont
					Eagle to see Mrs Fry and Mrs Smith. Bertha Hawes Cousin whom I saw as I pored by. She kindly gave me a check
					for $500 which will be a help to me. She mentioned a
					remakable resemblence between dean Ray and myself. She is fond of him as she was
					of the Archdeacon when he was in Dallas. I had luncheon with her and spent a
					good deal of time with the Fry's. Wrote to Emerson Beuthy and Wm Hen.
					and returned to Sewanee this afternoon. It is a pleasure to have spent a few
					moments with some of my friends and I checked up MrsSwiffelts house hold goods in
					her cabin. Had dinner at the Phillips and it was delightful. I had intended to
					go down the mountain afoot but felt too tired. I shall be off to- tomorrow. I
					pray God's help. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					and the top of the page.I called on Miss Saddle Elliot
					and Nuja and Mrs Mac were there It was pleasant in a way but there is somethg always unhappy and ursalizact abista visit with Miss Sadon also said Mrs Judd and had a nice boy chat with her, Pres-Chauld some extra pictures of the Arch deacon from her.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					and the top of the page.194 WEDNESDAY, JULY 13, 1921Knoxville. cooler.I had the pleasure of having another meal with Fred Hard today and then packed up
					to come home. It was hard to say good bye to the old Room again. I called on
						Mrs Morris. Sorry I did not see Bill Knight and Miss Ada.
					Saw some of the boys. and Mrs Preston. After I have berne there It does not seem now that
					I could possibly have gotten on without going back once more. It changed my view
					on life some how and filled me with strength that I have never had before. The
					wonder-ful friendship, I have formed there have given me great joy. On my way
					home I had diner with Mrs Wright and Bess Sloane came to the
					came to the station to see me off. In Chatt. I found a copy of Crudens
					Concordence for 75 cents in Tapp's Book shop and I valuse it. It was a real pleasure to
					meet Henry Chernnowiths fether
					on the train. He is soon to move to Jacksonville Fla from N.O. I like that boy. Good news of
					Papa's new fountuin awaites
					me. A man who use to work in Wileys aske him to come and keep books for him and
					work in a new firm in heating and radiators etc I am very happy. for Papa is
					capable and it will make life easier for him in his dear old age. Please God he
					will be happy in the work for I want him to be happy Dr
					Whitaker brought over the list of books I am to get.THURSDAY, JULY 14 195Knoxville. Hot.I packed my books this morning and attended to considerable business in town.
						Dr Whitaker said he would phone Mrs
					McCargo to see if the ladies were willing to help me by giving clothes instead
					of books. I sadly need both. I shall know about it tomorrow. Roy kindly made me
					a present of $15 with which I bough me some tortis shell nose glasses. They will
					be most useful in Alaska. Mrs Nessler mailed me in for a
					sitting tomorrow at 3:00 I hate to say good bye to Mrs
					Nessler she seems feelble and sad. They also gave me an address book. It was sad
					to hear of the death of Frank Richmonds wife today. I spen the evenig with
					Roy's family and how happy they are. It makes me happy. Roy sent Walter his
					note of $300 with Interest for 5 years and $50 yesterday. He is kind and liberal
					and eager to help. Such brotherly love is acceptable to God. How I pray God it
					may please Him to grant that I shall have that with which to do those things my
					heart so much desires. I should like to buy a farm for W. and do many of the
					things for them here at home. I believe in prayer and know God will grant
					it.196 FRIDAY, JULY 15, 1921Knoxville Extremely hot.This is the day I was to leave on my long journey, but, as too often, I have put
					things off, and the onorous job of packing always asks me can it not get in
					early in the game, even when it knows it will have to wait until last and then
					be rushed to death. It is very patient. I have not felt too well today though I
					went to town and executed a great deal of necessary work before my departure
						Dr Whitaker asked me how much I would need for my clothes
					and expressed the Ladies' desire to help in some real way. I am glad for I
					need the material assistance, and too, I feel that it is their part to help me
					going out from their parish. It is not that I want them to help me financially
					but I think they should show a personal interest in any one who is going out to
					the mission field to represent them. Dr W. expressed without
					doubt his feeling to ward Alaska and the the work of the Church there. He holds
					some real grievances which it is natural enough for him to hold. From what he
					said he thinks, undoubtly that the Board of Missions is dishonest in its methods
					and dealings with Alaska and so do I. I think they mirs up resent the field and I do not see what be-comes
					of all the money appropriated for AlaskaThe following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.certainly the few workers are very megerly paid and I do not think that other
					expenses consume the rest of the funds, butHe is also a very prejudiced also.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.SATURDAY, JULY 16, 1921 197Ashville N.C.Now that I am on my journey I am very happy and yet there seems to be a sorrow in
					my heart that I am leaving home and friends some of whom I shall not see again
					Mildred came to carry me down to the station. I hen were but a few minutes left and I spoke a hurried
					good bye to all the family and waved to them from the train. I hope it will be
					possible some day to take them all to Alaska with me. That is my hearts desire.
					I have come in here late to night. We rode out to the gry Links and walked over from Grove
					Park here to Woolsie. It is fine to be here with Robert and Aunt Em and Cousin
						Rune. The Westalls too. I am
					glad to be making this little visit to Ashville renew my Crowd-edge of this section. Where all
					home hasted to see me go they
					seem to feel it was best and did all they could to make it easy for me. It will
					be a happy day to return and see them three years hence. I look forward to it
					now. The sad part of the thing is I am already tired of traveling and I am not
					started I have a long and tiresome way to go I pray Gods blessings on those I
					have behind.198 SUNDAY, JULY 17, 1921Ashville En Route WashingtonSo late to bed last night that we did not arise very early Then Aunt Em. add and
					feeble begged me to stay with her and not go to church. Though she is a thorough
					church going woman she is too old to go now. We sat about and talked all the
					morning save the time I went to town for my ticket and birth. After dinner I
					phoned Bp. Knight at the Grove park Inu and attempts to phone Miss Fanny Fronerguger but could not.
					We visited with Cousin Minnie and Cousin Charlie came over to seeme It was hard
					to say good bye to him. I thought of those clear ones at Wartburg and how hard
					it was to say good bye after Adolphs death. Robert is a fine boy with a good
					deal of person-ality. He is making progress in the world and I wish him well.
					The trip thus far on to Wash. is very pleasant. I have need a heason a Mr
					Beall very pleasant and I shall be able to attend a meeting of the Masons once while in Wash. He has
					given me a very interesting description of the lodge and I hope to see it some
					time while there.MONDAY, JULY 18, 1921 1992463 Florida st Cherye Lace
					md.It was most delightful to come out to Margouts this morning She is so charming and makes every thing so
					very plesant for me that I shall hate to leave when the time comes next Friday
					to go. They have this lovely home elegently furnished in such good taste and it
					is an inspiration to be here. "Peggy" the brightest child I have ever
					known for hem years so full of
					good wit and humor could not be a better little hostess and niece. She will make
					a wonderful wife for some man. I love her. I am sorry that M. is ill and may
					have to have an operation the first of the month. I pray Gods blessing for her.
					I am sure she will be all right again. Most of the day was spent talking over
					the past present and future. I rested in the afternoon after playing with
					"Peg" and Howard came home about five oclock. I missed him at the
					station this morning. after supper we talked until Margaret and "Peg"
					went to bed then Howard and I talked until nearly one oclock - not many boys
					feel the same toward home when they have been away from it so long as he has He
					feels toward it as he would feel if he had been right there all his life. His
					visit to Walter touched his heart when he was down there last summer. Walters
					condition is sad and I pray God to help him. Howard has sold his house and has
					to move the first of Sept. I wish they could go home and stay until they movem
					to Caty. They want to be there
					so "Peggy" can have a home and grow up among her friends.Rev. Henry Russell Talbot2844 Wisconsin Ave. Wash DC200 TUESDAY, JULY 19, 19216306 Florida. Chevy Chase Rd.Washington D.C.This morning "Peggy" and I spent at the Zoological Park and thoroughly
					enjoyed the animals though we had both seen them many times. It is always
					fascinating to live moving creatures. A squrrell happened to get caught in the
					otter cage and the otter chase it round and round. Why do we take such sport in
					the misfortune of other creatures? We are not heartless for we were sorry when
					the keepers came and killed the squrrell to keep the otter from eating it. I
					plan to leave Wash. at 11:45 Friday. And Haddonfield depoir b l a m Sundan It will be hard to get off then. I
					may just come in Sat. night This evening I spent the most unhappy dinner hour I
					think I have ever known. Cousin Margie Grider wrote me that the Talbots were at
					the Cathedral so I went to call on them. Cranon T. met me in a very condecending manner this morning then
					I came back to Howards office and then went through our wonderful capitol
					building and Congressional library. They are marvelous and superb. I also went
					to the Department of the Interior and met Mr Alfred or Broks Mrs T.
					was pleasant enough but Mr Talbot was the most insulting host I ever had. I
					should be happy if I never saw him or thought of him again I had hardly gone
					into his presence when I began to repeatedly say O, hell I wish I were away
						fives lingThe following text is written sideways on the left side,
					top, and right side of the page.yesterday It seemed that a mans soul
					was nothing to him but his intellect was allI know I am no verllsert
					intellec-tual gennis but I hope
					to do some work in this world.He kindly gave me some Gut.
					reports on Alaska and said he was going to Alaska this summer.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side,
					top, and right side of the page.WEDNESDAY, JULY 20, 1921 201Washington D.C.These days so filled with interest and pleasure will never be forgotten. Howard
					and Margaret have a lovely house and with "Peggy" they are most happy
					in it. It is a six room bungats
					with hard wood floors and very attractive finishings as well as very handsome
					furnishings. Every thing in it is in good taste and it is not overly furnished.
					The entire house is characteristic of sweet and beautiful natures of Margaret
					and Peggy and Howard. It has been a real pleasure to be here. "Peggy"
					and I went down to the zoo. this morning and enjoyed seeing the various animals.
					When one of the otters began to chase a squrrell that accidentally got into the
					cage it caused great delight to the by standing children among of whom I was one. This evening
					I spent one of the most delightful dinner hours I have ever spent. Father W. L.
					Devries 3515 Woodley Road with his many stories full of fun and good humor
					cultural and educational Ript us full of laughter. Noble Powell, and Tilinane sharp were there and
						her alcthleywere there and his cousin came in-
					Father DeVries was charming and was keenly interested in me and in Alaska a very
					different and superior man to Mr Talbot . I last night.Intended going to Mt Vernon today but Margaret was ill and could not202 THURSDAY, JULY 21, 1921Washington D.C.Howards.This has been a full and interesting day. I went up with Howard this morning and
					climbed up the Wash. Monument. It stands 500 feet high and from the top is a
					most super view of the whole city. The elevator was not runing so I had the
					pleasure of climbing the stairs and seeing all the memorials of the state to
					Washington. That quotation from Lincoln "The Union must be Preserved"
					on the Tennessee Memorial gripped me. I am afraid I am not a reconstruction
					southerner. The mislann was
					wonderfully interesting and fascinating. The berst of orgytion kings and the Alaska display and most
					of all the Asties Indian display
					interested me. Then was the cylindrical stone of its mon and the Calendar Stone. And then was the temples and
					all those things of intense interest. The painting of Denali with the incorrect
					data writh under annoyed me. It
					is not a very perfect painting either. The Mountain is more se-cuding and bold then the painting
					represents it. The foregrounds is more beautiful and Ithig is sharper in nature than in the painting. I am
					familiar with the the particular view pntd and I am not very pleased with it.
					The afternoon was spent at home working about the home and garden. We washed
						daddy in 'Deyjors'
						doge a beautiful Scotch collie. Margaret is quite ill and I am
					sorry.FRIDAY JULY 22, 1921 203Haverford Penn. "Midhope"Washington D.C.This morning I stayed at home to pack my grip and suitcase. Margaret was feeling better and got up late to
					say good bye. Packing is such a horrible job and I hate it especially that each
					time it reminds me that I am saying good bye to some I shall not see again.
					Margaret is to undergo a serious operation about the 1st of
					August in all probability. I feel assured she will come out o.k. That was the
					last touch of real home for three years. "Peggy" is certainly a
					brilliant little girl so sweet and so entertaining. On the way over I read parts
					of the back of the books on government records Mr Brooks gave
					me. I came from Broad St Station straight out here to "Midhope" and
					found the Misses Booth oe
					charming and wonderful as ever and they seemed almost as glad to see me as I to
					see them. I am thankful to God that He has restored to me their friendship the
					only one of the old set of a few years ago that I prayed so earnestly for. They
					are friends worth having. So thoughtful and so kind. They had a Miss McKullie
					here for diner who afterwards took us but to ped St David's church about which Longfellow wrote
					that beautiful poem when we returned we read the poem. I must con-fess that all
					this makes me a bit homesick.204 SATURDAY, JULY 23, 1921Hotel Commodore.New York City Very hot today in PhilaIt does hardly seem possible that I am this far on my way to my destination which
					yet lies many thousands of miles off. Surely I shall recall this happy evenig
					with much pleasure when I get into my Small log cabin surrounded by Indians. I
					like hotels for I feel so free in them. I did not find cousin Alices'
						mama on the register, but
					doubtless she is here. I came in from the Booths this morning early and went up
					to the Deaconess school to see Deaconess Carter. She was on her vacation. I found most of the store in
						Phila closed and amng them Thornton and Voigt the
					Tailors. I had hoped they could measure me up for a suit. The rest of the mornig
					and part of the evenig was happily spent with Bertha and the Rongs. Bertha looks
					well and I love her better than any one outside the family, but I am afraid I
					can never marry her. I know I cannot for she is many years too old for me and
					she is ill in a way that it would not do to marry her. She could never bear me
					children for her condition would never permit. Dorothy Roney is a most Livert and attractive girl and I had
					a most delightful talk with her advising her about her college work as well as
					her religious life. She goes to Maryville Temn this fall and entering into the social life there she will
					be very happy I think. As I sit in this elegant room I feel sorry as I think of
					Walter in his humble room in that cabin on the mountain top and I pray for him
					as forThe following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.those loved ones at homeThe preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.SUNDAY, JULY 24, 1921 205Commodore Hotel.New York City Very hot.Getting in so late last night with such a confusion of times I was unable to
					arise early enough this morning for Early service. Later, however, I met Cousin
					Alice and we went to the Grand Central for breakfast. We took all our meals over
					there today. The service at 11:00 oclock at St Mary's the Virgin was very
					beautiful and impressive. I enjoyed it and heard a splendid sermon on the injust
						student. Emphesizing the
					"wisdom of the world" is concentrating on one thing yet not leaving
					out the necessity of the spiritual and on relation with God but using the
					"wisdom" for Gods purpose. Though the afternoon we rested and after
					dinner went down to Calvery for evenig prayer. The sermon poorly constructed and
					delivered was just St James as tomorrow is St James' day. I have tried to
					reach Mr Betticher but have been unable to. It seems good to
					be in NY. Again. I love the big city. When I am off there in the far North land
					I shall miss it dreadfully. I am eager to know what the future near and a little
					further off has in store. God grant that I shall be able to do His Holy will in
					all things. I anticipate much Walter and his family is much on my heart and
						wind at this time I see no
					way things that it would seem
						must be can come to pass,
					but God is able and kind.206 MONDAY, JULY 25, 1921Cos Cob. Conn.At noon to-day Cousin Alice Pristey left for home it has been a great pleasure to have seen
					her and been with her for this short time she is kind and good. She entertained
					me at the Hotel Commodore over Sunday. This morning we came to the Missons House
					and made plans with Mr Betticher. He and I amt noth to Johnne by her for she will see him tomorrow.
						Mr B. wanted me to come out tonight and it is most
					pleasant to be here. Bp. Burbun
					use to live here and the place is in good condition for an old house Thiss
					mag-nificent furniture very old and very beautiful goes well with the house. The
					flower garden is lovely. Greenwich Village Conn & Mont Clair N.J. are the two most fasionable parts of
					the N.Y. suburbs. It looks bad for Mr Clark to live in one
					and Mr B. in the other but it is characteristic of the spirit
					of the "Missions
					House'" I got my trunk straightened out this afternoon and it will be
					sent to the Mission House for re packing.TUESDAY, JULY 26, 1921 207New York City - Cos Cob, Conn. (See pg. 366)It was a pleasure to learn that Dr Burke had been ordained. It
					will mean that his usefulness is meriashd
						wtnsefully It will also mean that his influence over the Johnne
					will be greater in that way and I am glad. Johnne graduated to day at Hermon and
					had a large company of friends there. I wish I might have been there too. I had hoped to see a good
					many friends while here in N.Y. but they are quite hard to reach at this time. I
					had a most delightful dinner and talk with Frank Rogers. He is deeply interested
					in Fraternity life and apparently especially so in Anos at Sewanee. He knows mans and loves them. His appartments are illigent. It is pleasant to be in
						Mr B. home and they are so cordial and so happy. This is
					the last touch of home Southern cooking makes it so much the more pleasant for
					me, Aim is a dear little child
					very sweet and very pretty. Very bright too. There was quite a storm in these
					parts so I went out and gathered the apples from the Oraberd.208 WEDNESDAY, JULY 27, 1921Wednesday New York City. (See pg.
					366)All of these days in N.Y. are busier than I anticipated. I am staying here that I
					might be with Celia for breakfast in the morning and then go to the farewell
					service with her. Mr & MrsNigh took us to the show at
					Columbia Circle tonight. And it was good. Johnie, Celia, and I will entertained
					at diner by them before the show. We were having a cold drink on the Circle when
					Miles More walked in on us. It was fin
						other him. Johnne was the same & Johnne whirg be walked in to the Missions
					house his hwrning. It is a
					pleasure to see the Highs so deeply interested in him. We came in from Mr Bettichers on time this morning I am sorry I went out last
					night for it put so much extra work on Mrs Betticher and she
					already had so much to do with Room and
						all. I was able to go down to Wanma misk as and Shudtes Book store. So many books I
					want if only I had the money. I bory nt
						some collars and a Rabbit vest from Box Sons and Vinnig they were $350 per doz. and
					the vest 610 It is very satisfactory my heart and mind is
					very much on Walter and those at home. May God bless themOne of the most delightful things of all was the breakfast and morning spent with
					Celia. She is a good old sport and her heart is in the right place. I hope she
					will go back to Alaska sometime She is so prettyTHURSDAY, JULY 28, 1921In some ways it is very plesant to spend a fur hours with inpetuons egotistic and self centerd Mr Madast. I am afraid I am not the
					gentler guest I should be for I can hardly stand his egotistic and self
					important attitude. He is no doubt, indeed, I know he is doing a progressive and
					splendid work in Paterson. I felt I must mak this visit for the sake of the work
					and to pay him my cordial respects for in many ways I like him. He urged me to
					have a definite understanding with the Bishop and Mrs Wright
					about the work; meals, authority and scope of work, which I shall do after the
					farewell Comurion Service for
					Johne & myself at the Missions house. Celebrated by Mr
					Betticher asosted by MrMadorn and a rotten twk given by Mr
					Arthur Grey all of which was helpful in some way or other we had a most delight
					ful dinner at the Nat. Arts Club. Mr Betticher Mr & MrsMaders, Mr
					& Mrs High, Carl Fleishman Miss
					Dowlzell, Celia Wright, Miss Tate, Johnie and myself. It was fine to be in this
					group of Alaskans. I wish there had been more than Mr &
						MrsMaders have ordered un a greece stote210 FRIDAY, JULY 29, 1921Eric en Route to Chicago.This has been a full and hard day. I came over from the Maduras about ten thirty this A.M.
					repacked my trunk Sent a wire home including message to Aunt Sally and Mrs Cowan and had lunch with Mr Betticher
					Carl Fleishman and Johnnie the last in N.Y. for these years Mr Chas. Lamb sent up the beautiful brass altar cross. Which I packed
					in my trunk. I phoned Charles Minor, Ethel Wrigh and Edith Honeyman and with Carl to say good bye at the
					Station to us we were off on one long trip which we look forward to. John to see
					his people and I leaving those so dear to me. It was in a way harder to leave
					there than in Knox. I wish it might have pleased God to grant me my hearts
					desire respecting their welfare, but He knows best. Carl could hardly say good
					bye. He would like to have gone back home Johnne was thinking so much of home
					and friends left behind he talked little. I spent most of the afternoon and
					evening reading and am happy to be on my way to do Gods work in the NorthSATURDAY, JULY 30, 1921 211Eric En Route to Chicago.Johnnie seems very happy to be on his way to the Northland. He says "Well I
					am away from Hermon any way". He could not help but see the ill and
					dishonourable hesiners methods
					they use there. It is too bad. Never have I ridden on such a miserable train
					before. and never shall I ride on this line again if I can possibly ride
					another. It is wrechedly hot and oncorn for table. I am interested in the psylogical study of the
					two gonng fellonr that have them
					rest opposite me. Such selfishness I have never seen before. They took advantage
					of me but I wanted to show them my heart was in the right place. It is rather
					miserable for this to learn to ride in an upper, but fortunately they were able
					to get another lower in the car. one of the greatest joys of the trip was to see
					Cousin Margie in Chicago. We had dinner to gether and sent some cards to Laura
					Celia and Mr & Mrs Betticher. Also
						saw talked of the Talbots and
					former asso-ciations which were most pleasant. She is the same old Margie
						but now to spend her
					vacation in lay orning.212 SUNDAY, JULY 31, 1921C.B. & Q. in State of Nebraska.It was good to sleep late this morning but Johnnie was up early and had his
					breakfast. After breakfast I said morning prayer and read a bit. I am finding
					the Characters in Martin Chngelint very interesting the misses Peck-sniff and thin farther with Mr Puich and
					Westlock are entertaining. It is always a pleasure to reveal the Cricket on the
					Hearth Dot and John and Tilly fascinate me. I enjoy riding through Nebraska for
					there come memories of the warm asso-ciation with Thomas Elam Hargroves at old Sewanee. I sent
					him a telegram of greetings. I wish he might have come up to Lincoln or Omaha. I
					also write Rosa a note which I mailed at York. Part of the day was spent in very
					pleasant con-versation with a Mason from Jersey City and a Jew from Chicago. An
					ortho-dox Jew he is but he has rather broad sympathies and a good bit of
					knowl-edge of Religion. He had Read "Hornack" and liked him, but said
					he was an herithn perhaps he is
					for many so con-sider him Dr Wells did not. MONDAY, AUGUST 1, 1921 213CB&Q in Wyoming and Montana.This is indeed the most desolate and barren country I have ever seen. It does not
					seem possible to the wonders of the greatest of all national parks could lie so
					near this forbedding country. A large number of passengers are leaving at
					Bellings. As I ride through I cannot help but wish Mother Dad and Rosa Mildred
					and all the rest of the family were along with me. John nie seems to be enjoying
					even this and it is very pleasant even though it is dry and dusty. I enjoy
					thinking of my friends. Old Marger Grider
						Iama and all the rest. Bob Love and Ruth whow have traveled this way before me. It
					is pleasant. Soon we shall be in Seattle and there is much to be done. I have
					met several quite pleasant people. It is am-using how the Jews seem to take up
					with me. The cloth seems to attract many to interesting conversation. It is
					surprising what some Jews are doing to down and Injine
					Christianity. I am sorry.214 TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 1921Northern Pacific R.R. Washington.This is our last night on the train. Only this afternoon have I felt at all
					tired. The trip has been most interesting and pleasant. I have found Miss
						Zadee French of the Up. W. C. A in Seattle most
					interested in the work and a charming motherly lady MrsChively of Seattle mother of
						DrChivly interested. She is very
					thoughtful too and saved a girl today from being ruind by a Mr Hernphill. an auditor for Armon & Ca. He is handsome and attractive a good looking
					face. The devil won he love and
					fascination and persuaded her to go to the Hotel Davenport with him. The lustful
					beast. This lady MrsChesly telegraphed the matron
					and officers at the Spokane Station. When we arrived he ran off with another
					girl. We have gotten into more beautiful country now and the morning will see us
					at the end of the third stage of our journey I anticipate the beautiful boat
					trip ahead of us. Oh how I wish we had a great cathedral out here for the
					Coast.This page was written up after date and should be on pg. 218 for the 6th day of Aug. It is part duphestrs what is written there. On 216 is found to-days
					notes with tomorrows. Leaving an
						cowveBC.WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 3, 1921The following text has several slashes on top of
					it.This has been a delightful day. Aftr much rushing about Johnne ? and I left
					Seattle at 9:00 A.M. on the "Princess Victoria" The Puiser was a very pleasant and fine
					looking gentle-man.The preceding text has several slashes on top of
					it.I had quite a long talk with him. I am fond of the Canadians. It was a
					disappointment this morn-ing not to find the stores open 9:10 is the opening
					time here. However, I found one leather store open where I bought me a shawl
					strap and a splendid portfolio with four compartments strap all around and were
					stitched. Perhaps not quite as well made though an English goods. Mr Horton came to the Hotel Fry to see us off. There was a most
					pleasant hour spent at Victoria. We took a rubber neck car and drove over the
					city on the left hand side of the street. Vict. is just a spot of England
					planted there. Miss Bolster was waiting at Vancouver for us and it was
					wonder-ful to see her. This is a gay and beautiful city. It was sweet of her to
					come all the way up from Sumas.216 THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 1921Seattle Wash.Yesterday morning at 9:00 we reached here and most of the morning was spent
					talking with Mr Horton. He is a character full of fun and
					good humour. With his empty upper gum he seems to find great pleasure knawing
					cigars. This The afternoon
					Johnnie had his teeth fixed and he seems to be suffering a good deal. We made
					lists of the numerous articles to be purchased and went about securing them. I
					was able to get most of the Alaskan clothing from C.C. Felson's and feel that I have a goodly supply
					for the winter, in a down comfort, heavy underware, mole skin britches and
						penttirs heavy boots, and
					moccosins, socks, makinaw coat, flan-nel shirts gloves and the like- a fur cap I
					shall get in the Interior. Some things I am taking in with me and the remainder
					will be mailed. It hardly seems possible that I am again buying stuff for the
					far north. I does not seem possible that I am returning after so many years
					longing and waiting. Neither does it seem possible that I will not find the
					Archdeacon there to gret me.FRIDAY, AUGUST 5, 1921 217Seattle. Quite cool.This day bids fair and fare. The last in civilization for three years. I like
					Seattle and have always liked it. Someday I hope I shall live here. Certainly if
					every I am not able to stand Alaskan climes I shall go to
					come to Seattle to try my luck. Miss Effie Jackson was with us for lunch today
					and Salina Pouple. I hope it
					will be possible to have Salina at Nenana next year to help in the work She is a
					fine Indian girl and I thing the main purpose of our work it to help and
					encourage just such girls and to give them places in our missions that they
						nng to help their own
					people. They are the hope of the Indian Rose and if we fail to recognize that we fail. And are
					responsible for their decline. It was nice to hear of the work and conditions
					from Miss Jackson I have much to anticipate. We had a most de-lightful evenig at
						Mrs Rowes. Little Paul is a fine chap and looks very much
					like Bp. Rowe. I hope that some day he will near his father
						has hes He will be a good one.The following text was written over the date at the top
					of the page.These Canadian boots are beautiful with excelent Services cuid, Comforts, and infinately superior to
					America lire, on the Pacifin to AlaskaThe preceding text was written over the date at the top
					of the page.218 SATURDAY, AUGUST 6, 1921Leavng Vancouver B.C.This has been a most delightful day. After much rushing about early this morning
					I purchased a splendid portfolio for $1410. Mr Horton called at the Hotel Frye to see us off and we sailed on the
					"Princess Victoria" at 9:00 A.M. The Peersn was a pleasant Canadian young and handsome quite
					good looking and an interesting talker. I though how much the Archdeacon would
					have enjoyed his company. The Scenery up to Vancouver was superb. At 1:15 we
					stopped at Victoria for an hour and enjoyed a rubber neck ride over the lonely
					city - when we arrived at Vancouver at 7:00 o'clock we found Dear Miss
					Bolster waiting for us. She had came all the way up from Abbotsford B.C. to see
					us. I wish we could have gone to see her then. Vancouver is a gay and beautiful
					city Imte ucbke oir American
					cities we spent three hours with "Seslir Botie". And talked over old times She gave me a
					copy of Private Prayer by E.B. Pusey DP. And I am happy to have it. She did not
					want to go back any more than I wanted her to go.SUNDAY, AUGUST 7, 1921 219On Board S.S. Princess Royal.A comfortable boat well quipped. Surely there is nothing more beautiful and
					inspiring in all the world than this inside passage "When I awoke this
					morning and looked out my state room window there rose up the wooder hills and some times the snow
					capped peaks. They were beautiful. I will lift up mine eyes into the hills from
					whence cometh my help "south the Psolunst David when I went out on deck the hills and mountains
					and great deep seemed to speak to me and say "God made me, God dwells among
					us. Surely God dwells among them and among His children whom He made and loves.
					How can anyone say there is no God. Thoughts of the Archdeacon have come to me
					over and over. And of poor Dear Walter struggling to save his wife. at 1:30 we
					passed Alert Bay and and then went into Queen Charlotte's Sound which was
					foggy and rough. Many were sea sick but I am glad to say that I am a good
					sailor- and so is Johnnie. We sang hymms a little while this evenig and I should
					have offered to have a service for the people but am sorry I did not God help me
					always to be alert and to do His will I wish Dear Mother could see this
					country.220 MONDAY, AUGUST 8, 1921S.S. Princess Royal.Still in Canadian territory I cannot but feel a certain atmosphere that is not
					American. I suppose it is because the officers feel more at home and I re-alize
					I am not at home, but I like it. We had a most pleasant stop at Prince Rupert.
					walked about the towns and met Mr T.A. Smoke - Ed Funk's friend - He is
					eager to go to the Interiors and wants me to write him of conditions there. He
					said tell Ed the nurse who cared for him in his ill ness is dead also Re son. He seemed to be very fond of
					Ed. We learned of the terrible tragedy of the sinking of the "Alaska"
					off the coast of Frisco Cal. It brings back thoughts of Dear old Walter. I loved
					the boy. After a little rough sea through Dixon's Entraves in about light hours we came
					to Ketchican Alaska. The town was brilliantly lighted but typically Alaskan. It
					was just midnight so we walked about for an hour. It seems good to be getting
					back again tot he old North. Johnne is NY
						& ysing it too. I am a bit restless now to get into the
					Interior.TUESDAY, AUGUST 9, 1921 221S.S. P.R.This has been an eventful day to pass through Wrangle where I saw the Rev. Mr Corser. He explained the totem poles to a group of us. I
					met several Church people. Mr C. seemed eager for Wuttakala to be filled. I seems a
					great pity that we have so few men to serve. He was also anxious to have
					different ones to publish the A
						chnchnian in diff parts oft he Co. which is very impracticable. In
					his way he is a very fine man and I am sure is doing a good work there. The trip
					through the narrow is beauti-ful. And now we stand at Juneau. Johnnie and I
					walked up to see the cathedral on the hill. I am sorry we did not get to see
					Dean Rice or Mr Jenkins. As I sit here I think of Dear old
					Wal ter and his young bride who lie over there on the hill side. I wish it were
					day so we could go over and clack their graves with some wild flowers in happy memory of
						& we we loved so dearly.
					May they requiem in pace.222 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 10, 1921S.S. Casca Livy White Horse for DawonThis has been one of the happier days of the trip. We reached Skagway and as
					usual I sent some cards. At 2:15. We are another hour behind now. We left for
					White Horse C.L. The scenery was superb Through the mountains. We rode in a
					parlour car and cab most
					pleasant company with some church people and an atractive young fellow just out
					of high school. It was interupting to see the old trail which Bp Rowe traveled
					and where so many hudreds of men lost there lives in those early days. Just an
					hour after we left arrvd WH we startd
					down the Yukon for Dawson and on down the river. We have an old terrier in the the state room with
					us. He is a sure enough old tunie - Such funy
					things happen us dunfed over a
					whole bux or parston alunes on
					the floor.THURSDAY, AUGUST 11, 1921 223On Board SS Casca Cold TonightDawson Y.T. at Bp & Mrs Stringers
						house.The trip down the river today has been most delightful with our party. Mrs Robert Suntto is most interesting and interested. As is Mrs Wright and Miss Lantry. Others I found interested too. It gives me
					a great deal of pleasure to make friends in traveling through I do not try to
					make very many. Ward White a delt is on board. He goes I Michigan next year as a freshman
					and seems quite enthusistic over it. The funniest thing of all is "that woman" Oh, is is an
					absolute nut, if you please. I can hardly call a woman that but she is so
					disgusting and makes such a phool of her self. Why are some women so very foolish I wonder-
					why do they talk so much and why do they always push themselves in and say the
					wrong thing. It is pathetic I feel very sorry for her. I try to be nice to her
					while every one is back biting and berichig her. I am sure she cannot help it.
						At harptoe to we hope to get to Selkink about 3:00 a.m. It was
					interesting to go through the five finger rapids and the Rinks to-night Hord Sad when we thinks of the lives lostThe following text is written on the side of the left of
					the page.there. As we passed by where the poor lad fell off the Casca a few werks and to now it seems very sad.
					May God rest his soul pin Paradise.The preceding text is written on the side of the left of
					the page.224 FRIDAY, AUGUST 12, 1921Dawson in the home of Bp and Mrs Stringer.at 5:00 P.M. we arrived here after a very happy day on the boat. Bishop Stringer
					and Mr Williams met us at the boat and Johnnie and I were
					guests at the Stringer home. They are most kind to take us in and make it so
					pleasant and com-fortable for us. They are most cordial and hospitable. After
					dinner Johnne went down and arranged for a trip to Moose-hide Village by
						laurich. Chicken Belly took
					us down. There were twenty of us in the party. We met Chief Isaac who remembered
					me from the time I saw him at Tanana Crossing eight years before. He showed the
					whole party over the village with interest. The Memorial Church there to Bp.
						Bompas with the Bible Prayrs
					Book and Bhyym Books translated
					was refresnhtrs of the love and
						dershir and Christian
					efforts made among and for those people. The humble little schools the best that
					can be offered was pitiable and sad, but there is no help for it. After we
					returned we went to a big dance at the B.
						B. Stoll - a dandy hall & good music but no move for me.16 SATURDAY, AUGUST 13, 1921 225DawsonThis has been a very full day This morning we went out to the Creeks. Up the
					Klondike and Bananza Creek to Last Chance. We saw a dredge working which cleaned
					up about $2000 a day. One was filled with deep sentiment and feeling and
					thrilled at Tunes when one
					thought of the old days the high hopes and deep distressrs the anxious hours and hors of deep despair.
					Those who longed and hoped and those who had their desires and brightest wishes
					ful-filled all passed along the way one time or another. The funny old Irishman
					who drove the carryall said one man gave a wild woman her weight in gold. Those
					were lively days. And they have their pathetic sides. I have a peculiar under
					standing and sympathetic feeling for all who passed that way. We were back in
					time to see the Casca off again. I told the fireman and some friends good bye. I
					hated to see them go. And it seems lonesome now that they are gone. Miss
						Jhonear goes onto Fairbanks
						& Vaser graduate and
					very attractive.226 SUNDAY, AUGUST 14, 1921(This all belongs to SaturdayDawson.This day has been spent mostly with Bishop Stringer talking over affairs of
					Education and the Church. He is a wonder-ful man full of the Spirit And a great
						hen. Mrs
					Stringer showed me a picture of herself and him when they dined with the King
					and Queen of England. Mrs S. is very charm ing and very
					interesting with her many years nearly 25, I think, in the country. Five years
					she spent at Hershahel Island as
					a young woman newly married She has gone through all with him. We called on the
						Tees and saw their beautiful
					garden, then goats and chickens.
					We also called on Mr Williams and the Hostel Then I went to
					the picture show with Johnnie and Miss Katherine Thomas. How strange it seems
					way up here in the Arctic region.MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 1921 227Dawson. S.S. Yukon.There have been many things to do today making ready to leave tonight. Upon
					arrival here I found a telegram from Dr Burke saying I have
					Bp. Rowes permission to stop over at Ft Yukon to help build a concrete Cross at
					Archdeacon Strucks grave. I have been anxious to stop over and I am glad to have
					the privilege of helping to build the Cross. The dear Archdeacon. I loved him.
						Mr Edwards gave me a works stopoven. I wrote Mother a letter and sent a few
					cards. Mrs Schultz (Miss Huntoon) and her husband were here for dinner tonight at
					the Bishops. It was nice to meet her. Miss Sylvester is very fond of her and
						MrsPunta I also met MrsCurtis. I so much en-joyed being
					at Bp. Stringers that I hated to leave, but at the same time it is good to be
					getting on my way. We placed a box of candy and some oranges in Miss
					Thomas' room. She is very nice, but would never in the world suit me. I am
					glad to be so near my hsturation.228 TUESDAY, AUGUST 16, 1921S. S. Yukon en route to Ft Yukon.When we woke up this mornig we were arriving at Eagle Alaska As soon as the
					customs officer was through Mr Garther B.W. came on board and introduced himself. He is very
					fine. I learned that Drane and the Bishop are on their way out. I hate worst to stop over at Fort Yukon for
					I feel I should be at work. The Bp. gave Garther per-mission to go to Tanana Crossing for a visit with my
					arrangements. I think it will be best for him to go at Christmas time. He has
					promised the Ketchn stock
						nothis Christmas tree but it
					would be far better for that to be at the Mission. I am anxious to start the
					work that way and accomplish certain things through this year in that district.
					As soon as I reach Nenana and find out how things stand I shall make definite
					plans for the winter shich will
					probably be a trip to the Alaskaket, Tanana Stephrs recays and Fairbanks to the Crossing.WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 17, 1921 229nights cold aand days warm.S.S. Yukon en route Ft Yukon.Here we are stuck in the mud. All the way from Tennessee with out a hitch to be
					stuck on a bar with in two hours of Johnnies destination, but this is Alaska and
					I have no complaint to offer. I am in Alaska now and am always a good sport. We
					ran on to the bar at 7:45 this morning The spar has been tried, cables stretched to a dead-man on a distant
					island then changed to an island to the side of us and the last disaster was
					when the trench broke. That
					fixed (it turned like a ham on a hook, the shaft was so bent) Just what they
					will do next I do not know. I hope they will get us off. There is no bolt we can secure to go down river.
					This afternoon Mrs Miller a Christian Scientist the wife of the
					Superintendent of the Smithsonian Institute at Washington, borrowed my Testament
					given my at my ordinaton. One of the most eventful happenings of the day is that
					I swore off of cigaretts I shall probably smoke cigars and a pipe but not
					cigaretts and I shall not greatly miss them. I am anxious to have as long as
					possible at Fort Yukon.230 THURSDAY, AUGUST 18, 1921Fort YukonThis morning we rose to find the stern of the boat switched around some twenty
					feet or so and high hopes that we might be off, but - Trial after trial was made
					and failure after failure ensued. Finally the last trial was made and the Pilot
					came to Ft Y with his taunch and
					brought the pilot from the boat, Johnnie and myself. I three hours we reached Ft
					Y. cold and tired. Mrs Burke stood on the bank with a large
					group of natives gathered around. The Dear Doctor met me with open hand on the
					waters edge. His face was sad and broken but he smiled. Scarcely could he speak
					of the Dear Archdeacon. How terrible the loss. 'Old 'Hap" did not
					seem happy any more. He told me of Dranes visit and his critical attitude here
					and of his dislike for him. Also of his urging the Bp. to make me Archdeacon as
					the Archdeacon desired it. The Bp. promised that he would make Dranes appt.
					Temporary we talked much of old friends at Sewanee and then he took me to the
					Arch. room. There were his books and all How I wish the Archdeacon was here, but
					his Spirit is here. He lives still. JB. gave me some books and the Individual communion service the
					A. used while in Dallas Texas and carried always on the trail here. There is
					nothing in all the world I treasure as much. Nothing I value so highly. God
					grant that I may carry on his work.FRIDAY, AUGUST 19, 1921 231Fort Yukon.This morning the Doctor showed me over the hospital and pointed out all the
					things the Archdeacon has done, The beautiful pictures he brought in. That life
					was full and active may God grant that I shall follow him grow and improve and
					become worthy to do the work. After lunch in which was most delicious, we went
					out to visit the Archdeacons grave. Never have I passed a sadder moment in my
					life. As I knelt there my heart sank. down into the grave with him, and through
					this day my heart has been heavy. My desire to remain here to carry on his work
					and to live in his room has grown deeper and deeper. I know that God has always
					heard my prayers and has given me those things best for me surely He out of his
					bounteous love and nilicy will
					give me this. It is not that I seek position and authority, but that I want to
					carry on his work which is God's work. well done. Mrs B.
					told me of the Archd. death in detail and said that on his death bed he much told Chief Jonas that he had a
					young man "outside" coming in this year to carry on his work I am the
					last of his men I loved him I harond him I desired to follow. God will not fail This evenig
						Mr B. and I talked over mission affairs. Things are
					serious at the present time. Dr B and I went to the church
					and saw all that the A. did there which indicatd histroy and Dendtion Dr B. asked me
					to preach Sunday.232 SATURDAY, AUGUST 20, 1921Fort Yukon.Late last night DrBurk and I talked of John going
					to Sewanee and of Johnnies life here. If T. does not get the swell head etc he will be able to study here
					and then take about 2 yrs. at Sewanee then 3 ys in medical school. I hope and
					pray that all goes well with him. Johnnie and Bart Barert - a splendid young
					fellow from Connecticut the son of a clergy man from Conn - that came traveling
					through the country and who is helping Dr B. with the Archd.
					things. Went with some Indians to get some sand for the concrete to build the
					foundation for the Solariurs.
					Last night I spent the night in Prayer. Praying that it might please God that I
					be Priested and follow the Arch. To day I composed a telegram to the Bishop whos
					at Cordova preaching Respectfully that I may be ordaind and if not convenient
					with him then by Bp. Stringer Dawson and then be stationed here mkg. a itinarary
					of the entire Interior stopping longer at the Allakaket, Tanana, and Nenana. I
					feel the vital importance of it and hope it may please God to grant it. It is
					all in His Hands.I celebrated a very happy birthday Read the two beautiful cards from Mrs Prestor & Cousin Alice and then Mrs
					Burke fixed a lovely dinner Mrs Johnne Palww, Bart Barhirt Miss Gurns, Miss Landon and the Buds were all presn Mrs B. gave
					me a thermos bottle, Mr Burke a copy of VanDyke beautifully illustrated and Dear Hudson a screw driver
						outfit most valuable.SUNDAY, AUGUST 21, 1921 233St Stephens Mission Fort Yukon AlaskaThis morning I wrote awoke early, but
					did not arise early. Morning prayer came im-mediately after breakfast and Dr B. gave a splendid talk on the Gospel for the Day. There
					were a large number of people there from the Village Dr
					B's love and loyalty for the Archd. is most remark-able. Dear Boy he seems
					to be no longer "Happy Burk" He takes his sorson as the Archdeacon to his at Walters death. I am
						underouring to drown my
					sorrow wied not forget my dear
					Archdeacon I shall try to encourage him to do the same. Immediately after a
					delicious dinner Sunday School assembled and then Evening prayer at which I
					talked. The boat "Alaska" came about eight o'clock so there was
					no Evening service for the white people. Dr B. took Nick
						Mastier down to Dawson for
					Xray of his knee. I was in hopes the boat would go up and help the Yukon off for
					there return for its barge - by that time I would have received a wire from the
					Bishop. I shall receive word from the Bishop in the morning and please God it
					will be favourable If so I shall return to Dawson on the next boat. The return
					of the "Yukon". In the mean time I can answer up a heavy
					correspondence. And do much reading and study I plan. Again I pray God to grant
					me my hearts desire.234 MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 1921St Stephen's Mission Fort Yukon AlaskaNo word from the Bishop today. This re-minds me of Howard when he comes home from
					work and Margaret asks him if there is any news. I do hope that it will please
					God to grant that I shall be ordained Priest and serve in the Archdeacon's
					stead as best I can. He prayed that I should follow him God will regard his
					prayers and consider his work and will not fail. I desire to serve in the
					biggest and best way I can. The work is so big and the workers are small. If I
					should have to go to Nenana I will do my best though in many ways I shall be
					very unhappy. Because it is hard I want go to. The
					selfishness, the greed for popularity, the magnified self importance off the
					workers is abominable, but I must be patient and kind. I have not the brilliant
					intellect the Archdeacon had but God grant that I shall have something of that
					wonderful spirit. I cannot but help wishing that he were here. He is dead, but
					his blessed Spirit lives on God be praised - at all events I shall be on the
					trail this winter a great deal. At the same time I hope and plan to do a good
					deal of studying. now that Dr B. is away I am
					"papa" Mrs is certainly jolly and full of fun and
					good humour.TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 1921 235St Stephens Hospital Ft Yukon Alaska.This morning I slept late in order that I might not have to worry about that
					telegram that was to come from the Bp. It came and said "Sorry but cannons
					stand in way of your request." I wired him backAs this is most central point respect-fully request and urge that make
					headquarters at Ft Yukon to make visitations from here, await your
					Instructions.I feel assured he will not grant this but really expected him to grant the other
					in spite of the Cannons in such an irner-gency. I shall ask him anyway to come to the coast to
					ordain me just before or after Christmas. I hope he will though Mrs Bishop may not per-mit it. Little has been accomplished to-day as I
					have been so insulted and it might please God to grant me my hearts desire. I
					wrote Bill Holden. May it please God to bring him into the ministry and also to
					help those at home We all need his watchful care.236 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 1921Fort Yukon Alaska.This morning I had the pleasure of reading some of the Archdeacon's Diaries.
					They are filled with Interest and beautifully written. At eleven the Bishops
					rather insulting wire came."You have my instructions go to Nenana"I do not understand the Bp's attitude toward me. I do not understand why he
					has given me no welcome, why he did not wait for me at Nenana. Why he with holds
					me from being ordained when he is so in need of clergy I should think he would
					be a bit more accomodating to his own clergy. This afternoon I went out to the
					Dear Archdeacons grave and felt his death and the loss of his championship
					for the work of Alaska as I have never felt it before. I realize that I have
					lost a dear friend and companion, and I deeply grieve his loss. To-day it seemed
					like a real loss. Surely his prayers in paradise are for me still.Mrs Burke has been very kind and con-siderate. Somehow I dread
					to go to Nenana with Miss Wright and all the misery that awaits me with no
					welcome, but why, I need not God is with me. Barheit is certainly a pleasant
					fellow I enjoy being with him. I wired DrBusk at Dawson.THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 1921 237Fort Yukon.Another gray day, but I have always been fond of rain so do not mind the
					anti-cipation of it. The Alaska is due to arrive at Dawson to-night and will
					probably return Sunday - I have packed a bit and am nearly ready to go. I wish I
					were going to stay. I had a most pleasant dinner at the Hosp. tonight the nurses
					there are lovely. This after-noon I wrote several letters and sent a money order
					for 34025 to Dr Wood and cheques amt' to 100325 for the Hosp. Memorial fund. I
					hope to be able to turn the $17 I have to Dr Wood. I also
					hope to raise a good deal at Tanana Crossing and Nenana and Tanana also the
					Allakaket if I make the Archdeacon's trip this winter. In all probability
						Deane has so arranged it
					that I shall not be able to. He is a jealous office seeking man from what I know
					of him. I dread to see him take the Dear Archdeacon's place.I have worked a good deal on my sermon which I shall probably not have to preach.
					I wish I were a good preacher. I wish I had a good grounding. I wish I cared to
					read. I believe if I were to be here I could do better, but I do not know. God
					be with me. I am thinking much of home these days.238 FRIDAY, AUGUST 26, 1921Fort Yukon. Rain (and I love it)This has not been a very event-ful day I have worked on my sermons and unpacked
					some boxes and written an acknowledgement or so. I should have written some
					letters for I owe so many. When I get to Nenana I shall try to write a good
					many. Since I have been here I have felt the archdeacon's death very
					keenly. I did not realize it. This is the only day I have felt settled enough to
					do anything. I hope I shall be able to do my work so that it will be pleasing to
					God when I get to Nenana.Tomorrow we hope to build the coping and posts around the Dear archdeacon's
					grave. I read some in his diary today and some of his poetry written back in
					1880. It was characteristic of him. God bless his soul in paradise.I have found Mr Barhist most
					congenial and companionable. I like him. He is full of fun and good humour, and
					is a clear thinker too. The amount of work he can accomplish is remarklable. I
					expect the Yukon up tonight.SATURDAY, AUGUST 27, 1921 239Fort Yukon clear & beautifulWe rose rather late today and were not able to get started on the coo coping around the plot on which the
					Dear archdeacon is buried until one oclock. McHealey and Mr Strum came up and laid of the lives & dug the ditch then Jonas
					& Charlie Johnson plained steeboards. I am sorry we did not get started earlier on it, but
					no one knows how coming here has effected me. I was indeed determined that it
					should not but in spite of that it has. Then too I hate to take much initiative
					in such things. AftAfter dinner we hat about and
					talked with MrSuanson who brought us a big
					goose and had dinner with us. Before Dinner we had a very nice dance.I have just had a long talk with Johnnie and he is quite eager to go to Sewanee.
					I should like to see him go as I know Dr. Burke would. I talked very plainly
					with him about the temptation to have the swell head and want to show authority
					etc. He realized the situation I think and I hope will fight against it. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.The archdeacon's Diaries were sent to Dr Wood today for
					him to prepare the book he is to write on the archd life other papers o pictures were sentThe preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.240 SUNDAY, AUGUST 28, 1921On board SS "Alaska" a wonderful clear and beautiful
					day and glorious sunset.The boat was expected this morning about 9:00 o'clock but did not come until
					the minute service was over. I had quite a hard time preaching a sermon and
						walh an absolute failure of
					it when it was done. All week I have worked on a sermon that I would have
					preached to-night had I been at Ft Yukon and it would not have been so bad
					perhaps.There were a number of things I wanted to do but did not get done. The whole week
					seems a failure and now that I am gone seems like an unpleasant dream. Mrs Burke seemed none to sorry that I am gone and spoke little
					and uncertainly of my coming back. I do not know that I shall arrange to go even
					if I can. Another time, however, things might be very different. Mr Barkist seemed to be sorry I was going. I hope to see him at Nenana.
					He is a boy with a splendid mind high
						pureporl and good character. I like him. The son of a clergyman in
					New Haven came. I am taking Sophie Andrew to Stephens village for Miss Bedell to
					care for.17 MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1921 241S.S. "Alaska" at Tanana.We arrived here at midnight tonight and I wrote a note to Deaconess Pick. The
					boat may pull out and I shall not be able to see her. We made ex-cellent
					connection. The "Tanana" came in with the "Alaska".At Rampart I met Mr May o - Capt. May. he is called for he has served so many years on
					these rivers. It was a pleasure to deliver the message his brothers gave me many
					years ago. They are both dead now. He seemed very happy to hear from them. He is
					a fine old gentleman.I also saw his gr daughters-in-law
					Sallie and her children. She seemed very happy.As a sight seer I took a look at Rex Beech cabin It did not differ from other
					cabins. It is just a cabin but I am glad I saw it.A funny old soldier is to have my state Room. He would not sleep in it when he
					found I was not going to transfer for fear he would disturb me. I hop I shall be able to come down
					here The following text is written sideways on the right side
					of the page.this winter.The preceding text is written sideways on the right side
					of the page.242 TUESDAY, AUGUST 30, 1921On board SS Tanana.This has been a weary day. The Tanana is a fast boat. It was supposed to draw
					less water than any in the world when it was built there may be others now. We
					are short of deck hands and that makes longer stops at wood piles.Deaconess Pick came in to see me this morning. It was a real pleasure to see her
					again.Miss Ridgeway another mother Mrs Baker and Miss Coster were in Tanana and went
					outside on the Alaska. I did not like Miss Ridgeway at all but some people have
					un-fortunate ways and they can't help it. I am sorry for her.I very much wish that we could get stronger workers here with more strength and
					force of character. Alaska is suffering from just that. There is an excess of
					it. There is so much small gossip, backbiting, and disloyalty that it is really
					sometimes depressing and even descouraging.WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 1921 243On SS "Tanana"This has been another weary day. I slept all morning for I was up a good part of
					the night packing wood on the steam boat for exercise. This afternoon I found
					the country interesting as we approached the hills.I found the people more interesting as I grew to know them better. Mrs Allred who is going up the RR line from Nenana wants to become a
					Churchwoman and be confirmed. I hope she does.I am off to huy rather jolly bed early tonight.244 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1921Nenana Alaska. Bright & Cloudy & RainAs we approached Nenana the mountains were gorgeous. I have never seen them more
					beautiful I wished for all my family.Passing the fishcamps I waved at the natives and occasionally received a
					return.I was sick at heart to arrive at the white town and see with my own eyes the camp
					I had heard of so many times somehow I sort of hoped I would not find it there.
					But it is very much there.With no one to meet me save a drayman I walked up through the village desolate
					and silent as it is with a million thoughts reflections and anticipations. Could
					I have heard but one voice to welcome me and have one native to remember me I
					should have been happy. There were some who loved me that are now in Paradise.
					They would have welcomed me. God bless them. Miss Wright came out on to poorch to meet me and said they
					had been several times to meet me. I don't know why, I wired them. I found
					Miss Wright(continued on page 60FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1921 245Nenana. St Mark's mission. RainThis has been a gloomy day in many ways. My first impress-ion of Nenana is that
					it is grown up in werds in every
					way. Intellec-tualy, morally, and spirtually. I have been looking around the
					place a bit to try to find happy munoies.Part of the day I worked in the cabin cleaning it up and I walked down town to
					get some shades for my windows. They were $1000 at Louis
					Andersons. It was nice to see Mr Anderson again.The children seem to have a much happier spirit than they had before when I was
					here. Miss Wright is fine with
					children but not so with other workers. She is another one of those individual
					workers though someone may be able to follow her alrightI find the beautiful altar Johnnie made standing in the schoolroom. Miss W. tells
					me that Drane is going to have a call to his Fathers Parish.246 SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1921Nenana.I wrote a letter to Mamma and the family today. This afternoon I went down to
					mail it and called on Mr & Mrs Phillips and Mr Martin
					from Tanana Crossing. He is going to cut my wood for me for the winter.Some time I have spent in pre-paring my sermon. I have not studied or written
					very much of it. a letter was here from Dr. Whtaker wit the original cheque for $150. and per-mission to use
					the $50 for equipment given me at my ordination.In my letter home I sent a M.O. for $5000 25 to Mamma and 25
					to Walt. I also told mother I
					would have $30000 sent her from my salary. $500 per month for Rosa and $500 per month for Papa
					the rest for herself.Upon my arrival I found all the books sent from Miss Thomas C.P.C. and two green
					stoles one Madara and one from
					Cousin Oliver There is a Remington Typewriter here in good condition for which I
					am glad.SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1921 247Nenana. Sometimes cloudy sometimes sunshine.I sent a telegram to the Bankers today "Travels limited to Tanana Valley.
					Two letters awaited me." I shall write them on the next boat.This morning I had services in English. There were a few village natives there.
					There is no interpreter here so I found it quit difficult, and do not know what
					I shall do this winter I preached to them in English, of course, on the first
						words of the Gospel for
					today "No man can serve two masters etc.This evening I taught the large boys and girls in Sunday school and found it most
					interesting. I love these people.At evening service I baptized Eva Henry Savage's little girl Helen Elizabeth
					and Nena Frank and Mose John
					were God mother and Father. There were only a few present. It is sad to see so
					few when I think of the crowd that use to be present. The white town has
					certainly corrupted this village and the flu has depleted it. May God speak
					through my lips to steer these people to their obligation to themselves. They
					need his guidance and help.248 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1921light frost last night nipped garden in spotsNenana clear and beautiful.This has been a fuller day and work begins to pile up. My time here is going to
					be crowded.A talk with Miss Wright to-day reveiled the reason for f my cold re-ception upon my arrival. She dreaded my coming
					because of the fact that I had the discipline of the children when here before. She is beginning
					to warm up a bit now. In all probability things may be pleasant enough.This is labour day but I have given it little thought. My greatest joy is that
					Papa and Roy and Howard have a holiday. Perhaps Mamma and Rosa and Mildred have
					gone out somewhere. Walter and his family when they rest they work there is no
					rest for them. I pray God He will provide some way for them that the children
					may be in school this year.School for the kiddies started to-day and they seem quite happy. I believe Miss
					Nixon is going to get on fine with them. They are a fine lot of children in
					every way.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1921 249Heavy frost last night that killed everythingNenana clear. not very cold"Oh for the life of a fireman" Dick Albert said yesterday that Dick
					Ketzler wanted to marry Bonita John the adopted daughter of old John now in
					Paradise and old Sarah. I did not realize that the affair was so far gone.Dick Ketzler & Bonita Dick
					Albert and Titus John came up just before dinner today and I refused flatly with
					definite reasons for the welfare of the native people at heart to marry them. I
					hate to see the wedge that is an entrance by which many may come in. Titus, to
					be relieved of the responsibility of his old mother, urged the pont They went immediately to the
					commissioner to get the liscense and for him to marry to marry them. After I buried Samuel Titus
					son of Titus John I went down to see the Commissioner at his request. He was
						unwilling to consider the
					missionaries the natural guardians of the native people as they have always been
					so considered and granted them the license. As a matter of duty and policy (I am
					sorry to say "policy") I married them. The first wedding ever per ceremony I ever performed. I
					hope the last will not be under such deplorable conditions.Until the natives themselves have the back-bone to start on their own feet there
					is not a great deal of effective work that can be donecon. on page 63250 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1921Ther. 31+ at 8:30 P.M.Nenana clear & colderThis morning I went down town and and settled up some business with the commiss
					ioner about Ketzler's weddin
					marriage with Bonita then did a few things about the place. This afternoon I dug
					potatoes and talked for a while with Mr Hogen the marshal Thank God he is on our
					side and wants to do whatever he can to help us in our work. He told Henry
					Thomas he would have to marry Henry
					Maggie Albert. He confessed he had promised her and that he would do it. Maggie
					told me a long story with Lama
					as interpreter.After supper I sent a wire to Bp. Rowe at Ankorage as he is probably there not
					leaving Seward until 15th Sept. It was as follows.Received your letter. Sorry did not see you. Fell urgent need priest interior
					this winter will you consider meeting me Juneau this St Andrew's Day to
					ordain me? Six months up there if you make special Dispensation allowed by
					canons. If impossible come Juneau may I come Seattle.I earnestly pray that God may grant me this privilege and blessing for the sake
					of His work which is in such dreadful need and necessity just now. May the
					prayers of those The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.who ask in Jesus name for me be heard at this time.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1921 25110:30 PM +32째 F.Nenana Bright & beautiful dayAfter cleaning up about the cabin I wrote some letters. Mr & Mrs Modara and MrsBetticher This afternoon I read
					the Forward in MrBelmore Brown's "The
					Conquest of MT McKinley" It is very interesting. Then I studied some
					Theology. Henry Thomas came in and I told him he must marry Maggie Albert right
					away. Tonight Kitty Albert came in to complain about Enoch. Poor people my heart
					goes out to them. HeI went down town to pay for the lights & phone and while there the
					"Tanana" came in. Mr Barkist was not on it. A large mail came but I
					did not get ours of course it will all be distributed and up tomorrow.Upon my return the Bps' wire had come which read."I am conscious of the need you speak of, but you have not had eno have not completed your theological work.
					Sorry I cannot grant your request."This attitude seems a queer thing and I do not quite understand it. I still hope
					it can be arranged. I feel it is unfair to the workers as well as to myself. I
					will raise the money myself if it be absolutely necessary to make the trip. I
					shall write the Bishop.252 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1921+51 at 11:00 P.M.Nenana cloudyWell, another day has gone by and I have accomplished something. The mail came in
					and there were a good many magazines to tie up. I went over a good many
					freightbills with Mr Scott to get the shortages up checked up.This afternoon I worked at my desk and this evening had service. Miss Wright was
					not feeling well she is absolutely tired out and Miss Bridgeman's discont and in-competency helps to
					distract and worry her. I am sorry for her.Just before dinner tonight I sent Bp. Rowe a telegram as follows."Disappointed but not discouraged. Will you please ordain me on St
					Andrew's Day as requested. According to new canon law to serve in this
					Diocese only until I have taken further examinations am past thirty years of age
					and carrying on my studies."Please God he will hear me for my michaspeaking and consider my hearts desire. Please God that He
					will hear the voice of my prayer and permit me to be ordained a priest forever
					after the order of Melkisidec that this winter I may serve His benighted
					children here.SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1921 253Nenana warm and rainingWe were not able to dig potatoes today for the pouring rain. I am afraid that
					when the rain is over it will turn very cold and freeze. Then it will be too
					late.Miss Wright seems very tired almost worn down. It is sad that Miss Bridge-man
					does not see her duty and do it. Miss Nixon is fine. Miss B. is really a great
					problem and I hardly know what to do about her. There is a Doctor coming up from
					down town to take care of John Mark and he spends hours and hours talking with
					her. She probably pours out all her troubles on him which unfairly reflects on
					the mission and workers.No word from the Bp. to-day I hope he answers my last telegram favorably. I see
					no reason why I should not be thus ordained and I am willing to sacrifice all
					for the sake of the workI studied today but wrote no letters.This afternoon I sent a box of candy to the nurses at Fort Yukon and the Burdes I also returned the
					thermometer (mercurel minimum)
					to Mr Horton to be exchanged for an alcohol minam. After supper we dansed. Then prayers. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.We have decided to have prayers for the workers every morning for 15 minutes
					after breakfast. I am glad.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.254 SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1921Nenana warm and raining.I slept late this morning and it was soon church time after breakfast. Only time
					to make some notes on my sermon. I am sorry I have to use notes at all, but soon
					I shall put them aside.After dinner was sunday school then I wrote some letters. The "Tanana"
					came down and Miss Nixon and I went down. I sent off a letter to the nurses at
					Fort Yukon and wrote to MrGarthes a copy of which letter I
					filed.A few prayers were read at the church and then Henry Thomas and Maggie Albert
					were married.I have just prepared for prayers tomorrow morning. I am eager to have such Bible
					reading and prayers as will draw us closer together.No word from the Bp today is just a bit encouraging Please God He will grant me
					my hearts desire. The Bishop may wait and write me from Juneau.I had a touch of rheumatism today which distresses me.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1921 255Nenana clear and beautifulTo-day we received a large "outside" mail. I like the frequent
					regularity with which they come. It was nice to hear from Lena and to know she has gotten on so
					nicely, but sorry that she must return the sad huval in the mountains, Oh, God, Have mercy and deliver
					them from such poverty. Receive my daily prayer for them God.Well, John Mark died last night and poor Kitty Enoch she has wailed his death all
					day. How like the ancient Jews these people are. Of course in her wailing there
					was a certain sorrow and it was very touching.We dug potatoes today and I wrote some necessary letters. I shall try to write
					several each day now They soon pile up.My big fountain pen came in and I am glad to have it. It looks as though I shall
					not have my freight from home and I am sorry. Of course there is a chance
					yet.No word from the Bishop to-day leads me to believe that he has written me instead
					of wiring. I am sorry if he will not ordain me but it looks as though he will
					not. I must be patient and keep on studying.256 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1921Quit cold this afternoon.Nenana cloudy, rain.This afternoon I helped dig potatoes Miss Wright and Miss Nixon were out too and
					we had lots of fun. There is much to be done through these next two weeks.I read a bit to-day and wrote some letters. There are a multitude of letters to
					write and somehow it is right hard to get at them I must write and get in some
					money this nustivThe time will not be long now until I shall have to be off on the trail. The
					trail is a hard life but I like it.From now on I shall try to write a sermon a week. I wish it were not so hard for
					me and I would enjoy all life more.No word from the Bishop and the last answers to my telegrams gives me no hope. He
					is probably just writing me his former reply, but I hate to make plans when
					things are unsettled. The future lies open before me. I pray Gods bless-ings
					upon it. He knows the way, may I allow Him to lead me on. God Bless those at
					home through Jesus Christ our Lord.18 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1921 257+34 at 11:35Nenana clear and colderToday I have done a bit more studying and hope to do a good deal more as time
					goes on. I started to fix Bessie's light but found after I had a good deal
					of the wire strung that I was using #14 wire instead of #12. After all
					Walter's teaching I made that stupid error.This afternoon I helped dig the potatoes and am glad the job is nearly done
					though I enjoy it. There is still much work to be done about the place. I
					ordered a barrell of lime for
					plastering this afternoon.This evening the children had a candy pull and popcorn feast.At 8:00 P.M. I went down to Mr Rothburg to a masonic club
					meeting. I was fine to meet twelve Brothers. Mr Hick a churchman was among then
						had the Scotts were most
					congenial. MrTouffle the gardener was a very
					pleasant young man. Mr & Mrs Phillips were there. There
					were a good many very pleasant ladies there too. Phillips made a very good talk
					but mine was short. I certainly am no talker and I am sorry. It was great sport
					to wash the dishes after the refreshments. Mr Rothburg has
					given up one of his rooms for the club work and it is all decorated in masonic
					style.258 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1921Nenana warm and RainToday I studied and helped with the potatoes. Moses took in the cabbages too and
					they were monsters. We scarcely have room in the cellar which is much larger
					than in my day, to store all the potatoes and vegetables.I wrote a couple of letters I wish I could get down to letter writing. I am
					afraid I am getting out of the habit.Mr Hogen went over the river to search for a still today but found none. He
					served an arrest on one man this morning and fined him upwards of $50000 I wish he could get more of them. It is a comfort to find
					an officer on our side.Chief Thomas came down today & I had thought that he would be up tonight but
					he did not come.I am off to bed early tonight to get some rest I did not sleep very well last
					night.My thoughts turn often to the Bp. I wish I could hear favourably from him but it
					all takes time God grant me the privilege and blessing of being ordained on St
					Andrews Day this year.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1921 259Nenana clear & colder.This has been a right full day but I have been able to study more. This morning I
					went down town but no mail came in on the "Tanana" last night. There
					was nothing through from the outside.This after noon the boys went up the Juliu Creek for a hunt to come back tomorrow
					night.I wrote my sermon but not in toto. Miss Nixon came over to the cabin and sat for quite a
					while.Evening service we had in the mission and there were quite a few up from the
					village we fixed up an alter with my cross & candles and I wore my
					vestments.Many thoughts of home have come to me of Mildred and her dear family and Walter
					and his family Roy & his family and Howard Margat and Peggy. Dear Mother Rosa & Papa are always
					on my mind too. God bless and help them always and keep them safe from all
					danger.260 SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1921+38 at 11:30 very coldNenana very cold because of windMost all morning and part of the after noon I read and studied and worked on my
					sermon for tomorrow such as it is. After I cleaned the house well I went down
					town and after attending to a bit of business in connection with the beautiful
					celtic cross to be placed at the head of the archdeacons grave I placed the
					order for the form in Mr Nelsons hands who works at Burgmans
					shop. I believe he will do it well. Then I went out to call on MrTruffle at his new house.This afternoon I took more of a bath in a tub and feel some cleaner to say the
					least. These sponge baths I dont like them.This evening I had a long talk with Miss Wright after the children had gone to
					bed. I like her. She knows her work and really has a brilliant mind. She is fine
					in every way and very different from the way I expected to find her.May God bless our work here and I hope He may be pleased that I shall be ordained
					on St Andrew's Day this year. I shall probably hear from the Bp on
					Tuesday.I am happy over the prospect of teaching Moses High school work.SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1921 261+38 at 10:20Nenana stiff wind northern lights beautiful. Clear and very beautifulThis has been a busy day. Joe tried to interpret the service sermon this morning, but he was not very successful.
					He was eager to try though and I think with practice he will be able to do it
					well by and by. I shall get somem village boys to work with him. Charlie Albert
					and perhaps Dick Albert Dick does very well but I dont know just how much he
					understands.Chief Thomas came up this afternoon and we talked over the affairs of the
					village. He is certainly a glib talker and says things when he talks. I wish he
					would put them into execution. We talked of the potlatch to be at Christmas and
					I have promised him some financial help for his house. I also arranged to buy
					the old Skookum house for a work shop and we will use the present blacksmith
					shop for a coal house. I encouraged the chief to urge his people to marry. The
					men not married to marry the women maiden and widow. Then to reconstruct their
						laus. To get team work in
					the village and to get the people out into the hills. I hope he will really do
					things but I never expect too much of these people as the first Christian borne
					generation.No service this evening for no one came. I am sorry.Charlie Smith and Silas went off hinting & Miss W. had to discipline them.Mr & Mrs Phillips came to get us to send the larger girls
					to the town to High School. I am glad she did not262 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1921+26 at 11 PMNenana clear and beautifulThis morning I put the celery in boxes and into the cellar. It may be too late
					but I hope not Then I dug out some of the cellar to leave more room for the
					vegetables and canned goods.While walking Nenana came up and told
					me that Jaime Syling wanted to
					marry her. This presents the most difficult case of all as she has a husband. He
					is here staying at the cabin tonight. How I dread the sad outlook of these poor
					people we have first had frorpes
					and he seems to be a good churchman save for his desire to marry a deorcded native God save thy people.
					For I know that thou lovest them.This after noon after a little study we worked in the cellar. I am now I hope to
					go to Fairbanks. This question of Nena however may keep me. There is nothing so
					sad and depress-ing as to see these natives Gudustly marrying white men and the sad thing is they
					desire it. It is too bad.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1921 263+28 at 11:30 PMNenana clear and beautifulThis has been a day pleasant enough in many ways. This morning I studied some and
					this afternoon waited on Jaime
						Ireland to go come up to
					see me but he did not appear. I went down in the village this evening and found
					him in Nena's cabin. He is determined to marry her but I pray that God may
					defend his cause and have pity on these poor people.This afternoon Miss Wright and I came
					went over the river and climbed to the top of the hill to get out of the sordid
					level. It is wonderful to get a broader vision some time. She was full of fun
					and good humour and we talked over many problems of difficulty I am certainly
					happy in the work here and hope I can accomplish real things for these people
					though I do not expect too much of them I am trying to appeal to Jennie from the Christian point of
					view. He is a churchman but decidedly a neglectful one.St Matthews Day.264 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1921Nenana cloudy.This morning Miss W. and I went down town and tended to some business. I found
					the cross progressing well. Mr O'Hern comes Friday to plow the garden I am
					glad to have him do it.I have not felt well to day and I am sorry, but soon I shall be all right.This afternoon we finished the cellar and almost finished banking the big house.
					There is much to be done about the place and I hate to feel under the
					weather.At Prayers tonight I read the Gospel for the day. I wish I could have been in
					Fairbanks I had planned to go there for the day but could not arrange it this
					week. Perhaps next week will be better.I mailed Mamma two pairs of moccasins today one for rough wear and another for
					beauty and longers.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1921 265Nenana cloudy.This whole day I have felt miserable. During the morning Moses & I finished
					banking up the big house. This afternoon I slept most of the time.Tonight we started the boys club and had an interesting meeting they seem happy
					and enthusiastic. Moses was elected chairman and Joe secretary. Before next week
					we shall draw up constitution and Bylaws etc. and have a real helpful meeting I
					am sure. We shall carve some I think and do some literary work266 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1921colder.Nena cloudy and a light snowThis has been a busy day. Banking the hospital this morning. Mr Dick O'Hern came up with Davidson this morning and plowed until
					three this afternoon. I hope he will finish tomorrow. I hope to buy five loads o
					manure from him. This afternoon the boys finished the stoop.I went down town this afternoon and found much to my astonishment that the form
					for the archdeacon's cross is $1.14 I feel that the man soaked me a very heavy price and is
					taking advantage of the situation but there is no help for it now. It will go up
					on the next boat.There was no outside mail and consequently nothing from the Bp. But in my heart I
					feel that I am to be ordained on St Andrew's Day. I know I will if it is
					God's Holy will I therin
					there serve and feed God's children which well makes me happyI had evening service and then helped with the children on the mission while Miss
					W. rested. I have just finished my sermon for Sunday and said usual evening
					prayers God bless those at home.SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1921 267+28 at 11:30Nenana cloudy & first light snowfall.This morning I read a bit and then banked the cabin for the clubhouse. We have
					the school House & my cabin yet to do.This afternoon I read and then went up to the Green house to get some celery to
					send to Mer Burke Touffle is
					coming up to dinner tomorrow night on my bid, and I am glad.A good sized outside mail came in to-day. an enthusiastic letter from Swenson
					Bently Sr. and one from Gus Thompson. I am glad that he is returning to Sewanee
					this fall and is going to study for the ministry. God bless him. I am glad that
					my freight left Seattle on the 2nd Sept. I hope to get it
					tomorrow or Monday. a sweet letter came from Botie and one from cousn Maggie one from Miss Fry and her mother offering me the
					books I need.No word to me from the Bp. He d did not
					receive my second telegram as he sailed from Anchorage ont he 8th Sept. I shall probably hear from him in Seattle. God grant His
					reply will be favourable to my request. I am eager to feed Gods children
					hereGrinder D. Barry book me the Book of
					Common Prayer. It was intensely interesting but ctreins and not always clear. I enjoyed it very much.
					"Religion of the Prayer Book"268 SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1921+28 11:00 PMNenana about 1 inch of snow.This morning I talked through Joe as interpreter and he got along well. The
					people say they understood him well. Not many village people were out. This
					white town makes me sick. I can hardly help comparing Nenana and the natives to
					the old days. I feel sad when I think of the loss of so many fine people by the
					flu. But God has taken them to Himself and I am glad they do not have to suffer
					what those poor people suffer.This afternoon Mr DeWitt called to see Arthur He is from the crossing and a very
					pleasant fellow. a Miss Holland called she was also pleasant. She has just come
					up from ansickonome a Red Cross
					trainer.I had service all in Indian tonight, but there were only a few out.Mr Touffle came up for dinner tonight He is certainly pleasant. The kind of a
					fellow I should like to have for a companion and friend. I hope to know him
					better. I believe that men can be friends with men in a very real and perfect
					way if a pure, kind, and thoughtful relation exists as friends. Perhaps better
					sometimes than men and women for there is no lust of the flesh to lead astray.
					When each man The following text is written sideways on the left side
					and the top of the page.does his part as a friend I belief that God will bless such friendship There are
					tests that come but if the scales are well balanced they will neither bend nor
					break but will meet out love for love consolation for consolation and truth for
					truth. Such a friend-ship was that with the Dear archdeacon He now dwells in
						courts above God bless his
					soul in Paradise. Reguean in
						pall.This is the answer say or the day
					we reached Tanana Crossing the
					to establish the Nasins I with
					Celia, & Netir BettichenThe preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					and the top of the page.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1921 269+29 at 8:30 the night.Nenana clear & probably colder duringNot feeling well effects me in a most peculiar way. It always makes my corners deaf my tummy is certainly
					queer and will not stand very much These delicious meals ought to fix me up for
					I have never eaten better but.I went down town to see that the cross got off to Fort Yukon and wired Dr Burke to see if he were willing that coworkers with the
					archdeacon could give the cross. I hope he approves. It was Miss Wrights
					suggestion. I am sorry that I am not able to do more that I have done or shall
					be able to do. I also shipped a box to Mr Zeigler with
						cults, type a.l. etc It was
					pretty heavy and will cost him a good lialWhile down town I saw Mrs Allred. She is return-ing to Seattle
					for the winter. I have asked her to go to Trinity church when she is accustomed
					to going and I shall write the Priest there to look herup. She wants to come
					into the church. May God Bless her.We were fortunate enough to get 164 lbs of carbon at 20 cents a pound today. It
					was the first of the season and it is good to have some in the larder.I ought to have written some letters today but did not get to it. I shall soon be
					able to write more I hope.270 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1921+32 at 11:00Nenana clear & beautiful windyThe wind is cold and has been all day. It warns me that all the banking and
					chinking must be done this week and I feel that Fairbanks must be put off one
					more week I worked all morning on Tortilla Hall.This evening Miss W. and I went to town to look over the commission buildings and
					found them built of unseasoned lumber so that it is doubtful if it will be
					possible to tear them down and move them I may however and if possible we have
					drawn ten-titive plans of a building in which all the workers will live. We will
					have the boys on one side and the girls on the other a central play gymnaseum and over it a chapel an
					Infirmery and large dining room and kitchen and individual bedrooms for larger
					girls and boys. Then the school room on the third floor. This way it will be
					possible to have an hundred children There are dormitories for small girls and
					boys and two furnaces to heat the whole ploen This will save much heat for now we heat three buildings. I
					hope it will be possible to do this. I shall be very happy if I can present such
					a plan to this Bishop on St Andrews Day.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1921 271+35 at 10:15Nenana raining slightlyA bit of plastering and banking; a bit of studying and a bit of writing finished
					the day save a bit of the singing of plain song I like it and shall enjoy it if
					we can have a service where it is used. I mean Euchrist service.I pray it will please God to grant that I may be ordained on St Andrew's day
					this year. I look forward to it with glad anticipation if it is Gods will.Tonight I unpacked some of my books and I am glad to have them I hope I shall
					have a good deal of time to study this year and to do some general reading as
					well I shall try very hard I know it would be the archd. wish.My thoughts turn constantly to those dear loved ones at home. I am always anxious
					to hear from them God bless my mother & father and family272 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1921+38 about 10:00 PM very beautifulNenana clear all day and tonightThe northern lights are very brilliant tonight It looks as tho the sun is rising
					almost the lights are so brightAll day I have been cutting the opening to the cellar larger. It is very
					necessary. I wonder why it was ever cut so small I ordered lumber from Burgman
					but it was not sent up. I hope he does not soke me some enormous price for
					it.We had a meeting of the boys in a club at the cabin here. They are very hard to
					get on to their feet but do say some interesting things sometimesI am sorry Moses has taken such an ardent dislike to me but there is no help for
					it I reckon. I like the boy and hate to think he feels any ill of me.After the meeting went down to the village and found Dick Ketzler in the lower
					cabin just out of the reservation He says he is going to buy it so Bonita can be
					near her people. What a tragic thing that these people are giving themselves
					away to the low down white man and how pitiable the state of of them. They do
					not see very far for themselves. The only thing is to do all that can be done
					for them. The white town has hurt them perminantly. I dread to see Dranes
					influence permieating the village when I go down and dread worse to see him
					return. He, the The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.poor simpleton is on the side of the white man to match the poor native amalgam ated and and slows go out of yistancesThe preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.19 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1921 273+34 at 9:00Nenana windy.I went to work on the cellar door this morning and at noon they came up to fix
					the furnace and install a new drum so I helped with that and had to sit down to
					dinner in a flannel shirt. The first time and I hope the last for I feel so
					uncomfortable.We talked with Mr Gelcher about installing a bath room where the pantry now is.
					Then were will make a portion of the cache into a pantry and cut a door into the
					cache and kitchen. I think it will be satisfactory in every way but it means a
					great deal of time, labour and extra expense. We should however have a pump and
					hot water. It would mean every thing to us in this place this winter. If we
					build next year all of these things will be useful to us. I shall certainly have
					it done if there is any possibility.I have not heard if a first class mail came in today I hope it did and that I
					shall hear favourably from the Bishop. I have had time to hear.I pray it may please God to grant that I shall be ordained soon.Tonight I hung a few of my pictures tempo.274 SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1921+20 at 11:20 clear all dayNenana 2" of snow this morning.It was in a way a pleasure to find the snow this morning but I realized that it
					would probably melt during the day and the cold weather on top of it would make
					banking impossible my cabin is not banked and I shall suffer this winter if I am
					not able to do it later.I am going to Fairbanks Friday and I must prepare a sermon so my time is going to
					be full taken until then. I hope I can get this house chinked and plastered is
					very urgent that I do.Most of the day spent at the house working on the cellar door. Saturday though so
					a busy day and many other things have come up.My freight from Seattle came this evening and I am glad to have my flashlight,
					gun thermos bottles etc. The box I shall use for another larger section for my
					bookcases and make three tiers of these
						sections cachared then I will have books to spare I hope to be
					able to do a good deal of reading this winter.Tomorrow I shall try to give an extemp sermon on prayer. I pray God that to His
					glory I may be ordained on St Andrew's DayMonday by mistake Sunday on pg 277SUNDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1921 275+28 about 10:00Nenana cloudy all day.I have just about finished the cellar door and I am glad. I am afraid I am not
					much of a carpenter for I am so slow about it. It takes a long time for me to
					get things just right with the saw and hammer.Tonight we had a meeting of the village people in the schoolhouse about twenty
					were there counting women and children. I tried to get every body to work on
					chief Thomas house. I'll declare there are such funny people. They are just
					children They offer a sick back for an excuse for work and want to borrow money
					on it. Then they go down and gamble it away The evils of this world certainly
					lure them astray But I must remind myself again of the fact that not much can be
					expected of them. They want electric lights in the cabin. I admit they will be
					more sanitary but I suppose they will want telephones next. Civilization is a
					cruel intrusion on their simple life. There is much to be done.Tuesday276 MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1921+34 at 11:00 a half gale.Nenana a cold wind blowingThis morning I went down town with a letter to Mrs Clegg
					saying that I would be in Fairbanks Sunday. I do not an-ticipate very gladly the
					trip a sermon worries me a bit maybe some day I will leave to preach though. I
					have been writing my sermon this after-noon and tonightMiss W. spent the afternoon here resting and I am glad for she needed it. I have
					noticed that she grows very weary by Friday and Saturday. She does not realize
					it but she will not be able to stand it all year that way. I know from previous
					experienceA big mail came this afternoon and I was glad to hear from home as well as
					friends. I shall soon now have to get down hard to my correspondence for it is
					piling up fast.In my mail was an ac-knowledgement from Miss Etucs for the portrate of the archdeacon I am glad she
					likes it She gave me a cordial invitation to visit herSunday's Diary Oct 2ndTUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1921 277+32 about 11:00Nenana windy.This morning I did a bit of work about and this afternoon tried to write my
					sermonThis morning I did better on my sermon than I expected. It was extemporaneus but
					I am afraid not in words the natives could well understand.This afternoon Mr Patterson came and he was certainly a queer
					one he stayed for supper and I am afraid has been in Alaska too long for his own
					good. There was only Bettes at
					Evening service. The natives do not feel the same responsibility for Christian
					teaching they use to. The white town here steers away poor souls. It is very
					hard to know what to do about them under the present conditions whether it would
					be wise to build here as elsewhere. I do not believe that we could ever now move
					the village away They might attempt to follow us but Thank goodness that s not
					for me to decide278 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1921+34 at 9:45Nenana windy.The boys hear that the caribou are up around Healy and want to go I wish I could
					go with them but must go to Fairbanks instead.All day with the exception that I banked my cabin I worked on my sermon and
					finished it. Now I must type write it and learn it. Then I must write another
					for morning service. I do not know what to expect there just see when the time
					comes. I have taken for my text Ephs. V:15 see that ye walk circumspectly not as
					fools but as wise redeeming the time for the days are evil. I have treated it
					after the fashion of the sermon Bp. Gailor preached at my ordination comparing
						Greek life with that of
					today or rather life of today with early greels lifeI shall also speak of archdeaon as we near the anniversary of his death.God Bless those at home and grant that I may be ordained on St Andrews Day.THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1921 279+34 at 10:PM with rain.Nenana cloudy & half snowingAll morning nearly I worked on my sermon. Then I did some banking on the back
					side of my cabin. I have the north side yet to bank and that is the cold side. I
					am a bit afraid while I am in Fairbanks the freeze up will come and I shall not
					be able to get it done.The moose caribou are running near 43
					at Healy most of the natives go away tomorrow and Saturday. Three of the boys
					Moses, Joe and Charlie are going early tomorrow morning for a few days I gave
					them $20 for traveling expenses. John Silas and Justin Silas came to borrow
					money. I hope there is plenty in the bank I do not know how much I have.Miss W. and I went to town this after noon and have about decided to have two
					toilets and bath installed in one end of the cache entering from the big room it
					means lots of work and expense but the comfort will be well worth it. It will
					cost about $50000 may God Grant that I shall be able to raise
					it280 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1921Fairbanks clear & cold.It was hard to get up early this morning and I had much to do. However, I got
					most of it done Before I left I got the figures on the bathroom and decided to
					have it done but found afterwards it would be $85000 instead
					of $46700 and phoned to Miss W. from North Nenana to suspend
					work It is too muchWhile waiting for the train I went to Mr Hows? who was an atheist. He was very interesting though
					Philosophy always interests me.All the way up I studied my sermon and think I have it now.Mrs Clegg, Mr Taylor, Miss Hawk, Miss Smith
					and Miss "Somebody" from Indiana met me and we had dinner at the
					Cleggs They set me to making a Welsh Rarbit and such a mess but it was good
					enough when I got through Miss Taylor Hawk is from Henderson N.C. and a very attractive girlIt is good to see Fairbanks again and it is very much the same as before a very
					pretty town We made out a list of 49 people to call on with MrsMcGrarry Miss Htchet is most attractive but
					coldI am stopping at the Pioneere Hotel a very pleasant place. Imto Alaskan.I let Justin Silas of the Silas
					have $10 each todaySATURDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1921 281Fairbanks clear.This morning I rested until two o'clock then went to Mrs
					Cleggs. We moved the organ over and this after noon made several calls. elean. and several more where the
					people were not at home. It was very nice to meet old friends and make new ones.
					There are about 50 on my list.At 4:30 I went to choir rehersal and the girls afternoon gave a tia which was a big dinner. We then
					went to the picture show which warothenAfter I came to my room I worked out my morning sermon for tomorrow and got to
					sleep late.I am going to tell the story of Gideon and his 300 men chosen from the 32000 men
					and draw examples from that with Hamlet not using the powers power he had and
					the business man searching into his business ff he feels something wrong. I hope to express my real
					feeling of the value in the story282 SUNDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1921Fairbanks Rain.This has been a most pleasant but hard day. Mrs Clegg is wonderful. I am invited
					to stay over a week but cannot I am afraid I have plenty of work with me if I
					should stay.I preached this evening on St P to the Eph. 8:15 and this morning on the story of
					Gideun ovoe what we love in
					hand. I spent the afternoon with Kathryn Homes & Evlyn Hooke and enjoyed it.The service over I loiterd with
					Ms Clegg a while and then came up here to my room and read a chapter of Barry on the Euchrist now I am ready
					for bedI thank God for His blessing to me this day and Pray his continued love &
						invy sprbationMONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1921 283Fairbanks Pouring rainThis morning I slept until 10:00 AM for I was very tired most of the afternoon I
					called and this evening I spent with Miss Thomas at the Cleggs. It was very
					delightful. They had some clever card tricks. Mrs Clegg is
					one of the finest women I have ever met. She has a brilliant and alert mind and
					she is very fond of young people.I sent a telegram to Dr Burke for I was thinking of the
					Archdeacons death and Samuel. This was founders day there and the tablet was
						unitilled. I wish I could
					have been there. I must write them soon.It is very late now and I have just had a real bath and I shaved.I shall be off early in the morning so I must go to sleep.Thanks to God for His love and goodness to me and his mercy.I pray it may please Him to grant that I should be ordained on St Andrew's
					Day I may leave a letter from the Bp. when I reach Nenana.284 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1921Nenana little snow on ground.Last night I drank some coffee at the Cleggs about one o'clock and I did not
					go to sleep all night. I had a miserable trip down on the train. Sick most of
					the way. Mrs Ketsley was on the train and Jerry.I was a little surprised not to find the boys back from their hunt but I know
					they are having a good time and hoping they kill a lot of caribou.Most of the day I have felt so badly that I have just laid around.I was glad to find that we have 2300
						$23439 in the bank. This gives me a chance to work about
					the place a bit before I am compelled to get to my correspondence to raise
					money.No mail was here save a couple of bills. I hope I shall soon have something from
					the Bishop.I found Miss Nixon had been quite ill for a couple of days and had to be out of
					school a dayI look forward to teaching Moses if he cares to have me do so.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1921 285+28째 12:00 PMNenana clear.The boys did not return today. I slept until noon and I have felt better this
					afternoon. I had time to put a few more wheelbarrows of dirt around my cabin and
					hope to finish it up tomorrow.Mr Anderson came late and fixed the kitchen floor. I am about decided to have my
					cabin covered with this same sort of paper roofing and paint it myself. It will
					make it much warmer. I ordered some window storm sashes. By the time I get the
					cabin all fixed up it will be very warm and comfortable I think.This evening I went down to Mr Roth-burgs to the masonic club
					meeting and it was very pleasant. Frank Touffle was there and I was glad to see
					him. I like him very much and hope to see him and talk with him quite a little
					this winter.I put up my new second hand stove
					this afternoon and it is going to make the cabin quite comfortable286 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1921+28 at 10:30Nenana clearLast night was one of the worst of all in my life save that one ghastly horrible
					night in Seattle Rock where I came within an ace of being stabbed for fifty dollars I had in my room.
					Since that night I have never been able to sleep.Last night I felt something wrong and before I went to the masonic club meeting I
					locked my door. About 1:30 a.m. I heard someone from behind my cabin and from my
					side window where he was evidently watching me. Then later he returned with a
					flash light up the trail. I loaded my gun and I reckon it is a good thing he did
					not come with a key to my doonI did not sleep all night and feel wide awake tonight.In that Moses and I shall study this winter and he asked if he could not come
					over and stay when I told him last nights experience has has moved over for the
					winter and I am very happy I like him and know we shall be most happy together
					God Bless him and keep him I am grateful for his kind thoughtfulnesssee pg. 161. This day 14th act. written there by mistakeFRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1921 287continuation from pg 161Moses came over and helped me dress and undress in my full dress clothes. I
					talked with him a bit about social life outside. I hope that bye and bye he will
					begin to eat and at our table for he
					needs the experience of a little bit of that. He will have it thrust upon him
					"outside" should he go to Herman and it is an honour to himself and
					the mission if he has good table manners.I also spoke to him about studying for the ministry. I shall not press it too
					hard but hope and pray God that He will fill him with the spirit to do His Holy
					work among these poor people of his who so much need him. He will be fine in
					many ways. I do not know just how much of a leader he is but there is much he
					can give his peoples. God be with him and help him in that which he so much
					needs. God give his blessings to hifollwoim that he may have courage consolation
					and strength.288 SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1921+30 at 8:15 P.M.Nenana cloudy & snowing all dayThis has certainly been a busy day. Moses and I cleaned up this morning and
					dusted well the first time since the new stove has been up. the old stove caused
					so much dust. Then we worked on the pump were unable to get the necessary
					pipe.This afternoon we chinked and plastered the cabin and Miss Nixon most kindly came
					over and washed all the windows so we were able to get on the storm windows She
					also cleaned up the stove.We have yet the school house and club house to plaster and the workshop to build.
					Then there will be place for all the tools and we can convert the back room into
					a very comfortable bedroom. I shall seal it and put up the stove that was in
					here line it and put on a paper flooring which will make it most pleasant.I hope and pray that I shall be ordained on St Andrew's Day this year that I
					may be able to serve God's children. We can then have all the early
					services and childrens services in here. Moses is off to a dance in The following text is written sideways on the right side
					of the page.town tonight we shall probably start his studies Monday.The preceding text is written sideways on the right side
					of the page.20 SUNDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1921 289+9 at 8:00 snowing all dayNenana very clear & coldThis has been a quiet pleasant day. I had service this morning and preached on St
					Pauls words to the Eph. "Wherefore put on the whole armour of God that ye
					may be able to stand in the evil day and when ye have done all, to
					stand."Most of the afternoon I read and this evening had several natives out for Chilic service. Henry Thomas intrepeded the lesson for me and
					Moses (blind) gave a talk.Moses came over and we had a lesson in math & English. we will give about an
					hour and a half every evening until the work lightens up and then more time. His
					grounding is very good and he has a good mind but a bit slow. I am deedunply
					interested in him and his wellfare and sincerely hope it will be possible for
					him to go "outside" to Mt Hermon. He deserves it and I hope will be
					able to go and make good. God grant His blessings on the boy. There is much he
					can accomplish if he sets himself to it.290 MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1921+6 at 9:50Nenana clear and coldI woke to find about f a foot of snow
					this morning and heavy ice in the river. It has been quite cold and wintry all
					day.This morning I went down town and attended to a good bit of business. I sent off
					the box to MrsDunbans in F'b'ks. and
					ordered Miss Nixon' report cards. They will be $750 for
					500.This afternoon I wrote to Dad and corrected the childrens S.S. papers they were
					very good and most interesting. Luke Jimie came to borrow $1000 and I let him have
						$750. Justin Silas may take a contract for 150 cords of
					wood. I hope he does.Moses and I did more work in class this evening and really accomplished something
					in math and English. He is an interesting chap and I believe will accomplish a
					good deal through the year. We hope to have more time for study as the works
					gets up and there is less to do. These next few days we will try to finish it
					all.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1921 291+8 at 11:00Nenana very clear & beautifulThis morning I got an awful knock on my leg just above the knee and if Moses had
					not rubbed it so well tonight with chloroform liniment I am afraid I should have
					a charliehorse.I had intended going to the dance but had to ask Frank Touffle to come up and
					take Miss Nixon I am rather glad I did not have to go.Moses and I studied until 11:30 and I feel quite happy that we accomplished so
					much.That miserable pump is a trial. It has taken so much time.Miss W. spent the afternoon here and rested. we had tea and talked over a good
					many points in life. She is in-teresting and quite a deep thinker. I enjoy
					talking with her.The chiffineers came down from
					Fairbanks and a dresser for the cabin. Mrs Clegg was very
					kind to attend to them for me. Their coming caused much talk down town I
					understand.292 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1921+8; at 11:15Nenana cloudy.I have read a good bit today and with Miss ME Thomas thanking her for my books.
					Surely I will get to my correspondence now I have much to do I shall take as
					much time as I can.This morning I felt blue and took a walk to the woods. This afternoon I felt
					fine.This was the first night of skating and it was fine to see them all out on the
					ice. They skated until 8:30 so Moses and I did not get to our work until late.
					However we accomplished a good deal. He can write "The Crossing of the
					Bar" and one stanza of "Flow gently sweet afton" He is getting on
					very well. God Bless and prosper him.I am thinking of those dear loved ones at home tonight and Pray Gods blessing on
					themDrane wired me to wire him the fish situation of the sumersoon & Fall to-day I geesd the hearing conedlyTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1921 293+24 at 11:05Nenana cloudy & windy.All day I have studied save for a few minutes that I helped fix the pump and it
					is fixed. This evening Miss W. of had a hunch that there was a mail so we went down after it
					while the family were skating. No word from the Bp and a remark Miss N. made as
					she read Mrs Rowe's letter indicates that he is not
					going to ordain me. Of course I am sorry but it is all right. I changes my plans
					very much as to my work and future life
						I fear. His disinterest towards me in contrast to the archdeacon
					is very unhappily noticable However.Moses and I had a lesson tonight and a good one. I love the boy. We talked a
					while after it. He said he had a fight with seven men who tried to make him
					drink. He said he promised his mother he would never drink and he said he would
					hate to break the promise. I am sure he never will. God help and bless him and
					keep him always to his vow. I am a bit homesick tonight294 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1921+32 at 9:00Nenana windy, warm, & cloudyThis morning I wrote some letters and took them down to mail them. I purchased
					some lumber for my bedroom as well as lining.Miss W. has been in the cabin all day for she was not feeling well. It is strange
					to me that the feeling comes sometimes that I am not sure of people I hope it is
					distrust on my part and that I shall be able to correct my falts. God help me at
					all times.This afternoon I worked a bit in the back room cleaning it up then wrote eight
					letters I am glad to have off. I shall try to write up all my mail hereafter as
					it comes in. Otherwise it gets so far behind.I have not written to my sermon for
					this week yet. It should have been done several days ago. I shall try to get
					after it tomorrow.Moses and all the children went to the movies to-night I thought it better for
					him to go and enjoy it.The caribou are over in the flats & there is a prospect of our getting
					enough The following text is written sideways on the right side
					of the page.to feed the dogs this wint. I hope I can kill some too.The preceding text is written sideways on the right side
					of the page.SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1921 295+26 at 11:30Nenana clear and colderThis has been a hard day and I have not felt very happy. Miss W. talks of having
					to go "outside" the anticipation seems almost a disaster sometimes it
					seems like the bottom is going to drop out of everything. Moses has been a bit
					un-happy too.I mailed 15 letters tonight and hope to get a good many done through the coming
					week now that the outside work is lightening up.The boys had a feed tonight and invited me we had a very nice time being foolish
					, sang and had lots of fun. They started to play "marching through
					Georgia" and my blood came up. It did not take long to stop them. Then we
					talked of old times. It was very pleasant.I do not anticipate a very good sermon tomorrow as I have not well prepared it.
					Moses & I had a lesson in History tonight He learns poetry well.296 SUNDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1921+28 at 10:00Nenana cloudy.This morning I rose late. Moses thought it was eight o'clock and it was
					nine. There were a few people out from the village for service. Blind Moses
					started off the hymns wrong and got me to laughing. It was funy.This afternoon after Sunday School I rested for I was very tired.Tonight I had prayers with a few that came up and Moses gave them a talk. Poor
					old Blind Moses. He does his best.Moses and I had a lesson tonight He is getting on well. We are getting to bed
					earlier tonight.The Blessings of God be on those I carbulr at home.MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1921 297+26 at 11 P.M.Nenana cloudy.This morning I felt very miserable and did not accomplish very much. This
					afternoon I cleaned up my gun with Moses as he & Joes are going over the
					river to hunt caribou tomorrow. I wrote a bit and talked with Miss Bridgeman.
					She seems to be much distressed about many things and I am sorry.Moses went down after some moccasins this evening and of course we missed most of
					the lesson we should have had. I have not decided in my mind altogether yet just
					how he feels about study but am very much inclined to think that he is not so
					enthusiastic about it as I should like for him to be. I pray God that He will
					find him worth His grace and help. That He will give him that which He only can
					give. I wish it might please Him to call him to the ministry that he may labour
					among Gods children Here.I shall tell him tonight of Arthurs studying The following text is written sideways on the right side
					of the page.for the ministryThe preceding text is written sideways on the right side
					of the page.298 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1921+16 at 9:00Nenana very clear & beautifulMoses and Joe went up to Dunbar to hunt caribou today. I let Moses have my gun.
					He seemed very happy over it.I have tried to write letters but have written only a few.This afternoon Miss Wright and I went down town. She came over and stayed a
					little while after supper. She is right interesting to discuss things with some
					time most always in fact. She is quite broad minded and well read.Mrs Clegg wrote to Miss Nixon urging her to come up Miss W.
					does not want her to go and I am very sorry. She must of course save herself. I
					wish it would not place me in so embarrising a position But of course it is
					always hard for one to see another side of a situation I see Miss W's but
					still feel Miss Nixon should go. May God Bless those dear ones at homePaul is staying here in the cabin while Moses is gone.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1921 299+18 at 9:00Nenana clear & beautifulAll day I have felt very miserable and cross. Most of the afternoon I slept, and
					I have acommplished nothing. This evening I read a bit of Hamlet. It brings back
					fond memories of Sewanee.Moses phoned from Dunbar and said he had seen no caribou. If he kills nothing he
					may come back earlier than Friday.From the way Miss W. talks she is going to let Miss Nixon go to Fairbanks, and I
					am glad. She should go. She not only deserves the trip but needs it.I am sorry Miss W's attitude toward Miss B. is such as it is, but I reckon
					it cannot be helped.The Churchman of Sept 24th, I think, gave MrDrrans appointment as
					Archdeacon. The Bp. wrote it from here on the 5th Aug. How
					strange it seems that such an one should take Archdeacons Stucks placke But it is so and I am very sorry.
					God grant him grace to do the work of one whom he is not worthy to follow. But
					what am I to be writing thus. my heart is with those at home.300 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1921+8 at 8:30Nenana cloudyWell, today I have felt better than yesterday I have accomplished some-thing too
					which encourages one. I am very glad to have a good deal of my correspondence
					up.A very nice small mail came in. a fine letter from Rosa. I am always happy when I
					hear from home. a splendid letter came from Hiram Douglas and one from Mr Bettichen offering me a communion service. I am glad to
					have the one the Dear Archdeacon used.Mr Horton wrote about my thermometer today. I am glad he is
					sending a better one. I like to use such instruments always.Miss Nixon is not going to Fairbanks and in many ways I am sorry, but Miss Wright
					is not well and every thing must be done to keep her going.My right arm panes me below the elbow tonight so that it is difficult to write. I
					am afraid that rhematism approaches. I hope and pray not.When I think of the hopelessness of being not being ordained on St Andrew's day this year I feel
					very blue and depressed.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1921 301Fairbanks Nenana clear & cold.I was quite busy getting ready before I came up this morning. I was sorry to come
					without Miss Nixon. When I went down town I saw Jim Hagen He introduced me to
						Burt Stephens and I met Mr Spensor an old friend and mighty fine fellow. Mrs Clegg had Stephens his niece & nephew Mr & Mrs Webster Earl & myself for dinner
					and it was very pleasant. I said a good word for Hagen but doubt if it did any
					good.While in the coony Holet I met
					Harry Karstens the first time in
					9 years. I did not know him. He did not have the courtesy to let up on the Dear
					Archdeacon in my presence. The Archdeacon owed him nothing when he died but more
					than payed him. I also met Alto Anderson and we talked over the fish situation
					and roughly drew up some petitions for the prospectors, minors, and mine Brown
					also one for the Bonified residence of Interior Alaska. I hope to get them
					legally formed and circulated while here.I had hoped to see the boys, but was unable to find then. my heart secretly
					anticipates a bit of trouble with Moses. I am sorry for I am fond of the boy and
					hope it is my foolish ness. God bless and help him.302 SATURDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1921Fairbanks clear and cold.This has been quite a successful day. I attended to a bit of business this
					morning and this afternoon made some satis-factory calls. I am very much
					interested in Miss Barrack. She has had a terrible sorrow in the deth of her
					baby and her brother in law. She had just been reading some letters of the
					details of her brother in laws death and she is distressed about what to do
					about his little boy Donnald of six years She wants to bring him in to
					Fb'k's but cannot go out after him. I hope I can help her in some way.
					She has a friend who wants to know something of the mission work. I shall write
					Mrs Barrack.Mrs Pick wants a pillow cover in moose & bead work. I
					shall try to secure one.Altogether I was able to make 11 calls. That seems to be all I can get around
					to.I hope and Pray still that it may please God to grant that I may be ordained on
					St Andrews day this year. He can have it so if it be His good will. His is done
					not mine. I shall write a couple of letters tonight and then to bed. God bless
					those at home. A message came The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.from Miss Wright today that Moses killt 4 caribou & that the boys walked home
					Friday It made me very happy in-deed. I wrote the Bp that the mailing list was
					sent zrigh on the 20thOctober with other materialsThe preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.SUNDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1921 303+16 at 6:00 PM.Fairbanks cloudy & snowing.I went to the R. C. Church this morning and it seemed very peculiar in some ways
					How remarkable that the Priest has such a strong hold on the people when the
					mission so far separated from the people The Priest mumbled away in an undertone
					in Latin which the choir sang and I can understand while there is so much
					superstition among them. He announced All Saints Day and said that all who did not have
					pressing business will be there. It reminded me of army
					days.His sermon was poor. Very bad grammar and much repetion but he kept close to the
					N.T. and did not preach the RC Church. His vestments were almost ridiculous,
					lace from the hips down and carelessly worn. The Chasuable was not pointed in
					the back and resembled a carpowters apron in front. Oh, yes, one pont he made in his sermon address it
						was was that Jesus wept but
					never laughed according to Bible pointing to His sympathy with humanity.
					Certainly, however, in a natural relationship with him He must have laughed many
					timesThis afternoon I decorated the Masonic ballroom for the ball tomorrow night and
					had a big time. It looked quite suitable for an Halloween ball and quite
					festiveI was at the Hicks' for dinner, and it was certainly delightful. I am very
					much interested in them and hope all goes well with them. God be in them home and bless them wherever
					they are.304 MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1921Fairbanks cloudy and snowIt has been snowing a bit all day. This morning I was up at 8:00 and had
					breakfast at Mrs Cleggs Then I assorted some clothing to go
					down to Nenana. The rest of the morning I helped Mrs Clegg
					with the Fair work.At 2:30 I went down to the Library and stayed then to meet the people until five
					when I sent a telegram to Diane about the fish situation.Mr Griffin of Richardson was there and asked me to sign a petition to help him
					get the P.O. Job. I am very sorry I did but it is to late now. I will know next
					time.The fair was quite a success. They made upwards of $40000 and
					nearly 10000 on the dance which was a great success &
					most enjoyable It lasted from 10:00 to 2:00. I took Ketterspn Thomas. She seemed to have a good time but I
					dont think cares much for me. It doesn't hurt my feelings at all.I met attorney Achley and he is going to draw up my petitions in a couple of
					weeks, may have to come to Fairbanks again but I shall be glad enough to do so I
					like Fairbanks in many respects better than Nenana God Grant that I never be ordained.The river froze over at Nenana last night so that people walked over it today21 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1921 3050 at 8:30Fairbanks clear with Northern LightsI was quite surprised to wake this morning and find I was one hour late for the
					train. I was quite disappointed too as I was anxious to get back to Nenana. It
						be well I didn't go,
					however, for the ice was not strong enough for the people to cross on it though
					doubtless it is all right now. I had four hours sleep so feel all right.This afternoon Mrs Clegg and I took down the decorations and
					put them away. Then I wrote to Mr Bettches.The marshal comes down to dinner and I am glad to have this chance to get to know
					him a little I am more and more digusted with politics. It is certainly corrupt
					and our American people should hang their heoks
					to see it is but they only
						snickeor it.I had hoped to get a good deal done while here but find I am unable to accomplish
					much.Mrs Clegg's fine. She is most thoughtful and kind most
					considerate is every way of Mr & Mrs Webster. They are
					just children How funny the way they came on to this country without even a
					tooth brush in their pocket.No word from the Bp The time is short and it looks that I will not be ordained I
					wish I might.306 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 19210 at 11:30Fairbanks clear & beautifulNever was I sleepier than I was to-day. I stayed in bed until 3:00 p.m. Then went
					down to MrsMcTnaice to dinner.After dinner I went to the masonic hall but forgot my password and could not
					enter. It was very embarrassing but there was no help for it. I came on up to
					the room and wrote to Walter at length. It was nearly three am before I went to
					sleep. For some reason I did not writ my diary, but one day by is not too
					bad.THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1921 307+8 at 11:30Fairbanks clear and beautifulThis morning Mrs Clegg and I packed up Mr
					Cleggs papers and this after noon I made several calls. But could not find all
					the people I wanted.Mrs Clegg had a big dinner tonight There six of the going people then I find Evylen
						Hocak very interesting and
					attractive. She is a southern girl with a good deal of personality. I like
						hear we had lots of fun
					tonight. We went to a show and enjoyed it.They are very anxious to have Miss Nixon come up for the dance on the 11th Nov. I hope she can come but do not believe she can. I
					like for Miss Wright to have the say in those things without saying too much
					myself for they have the house to take care of.I have brought up Mrs Cleggs alarm clock so I can get up in
					the morning I shall not miss another train.God grant it be His Holy will that I be ordained on St Andrew's Day308 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1921+14 at 10:00Nenana clearAnother sleepless night and a miserable one. Most of the morning I slept on the
					train and got in to North Nenana about 2:00 it was a slow tiresome tripThe river is two days frozen and about 6 or 8 inches of ice.They all gave me a cordial welcome and I found Moses quite content and happy. I
					simply mention it as I was anxious about it. Tonight we had a lesson. He really
					wants to go to Hernon so we will work hard at the lessons I thuts. He is getting on very
					nicely.I am glad to be back again and find much work to be done. Much cor-respondence
					and much business. I plan to go to Tanana on the 15 I hope I shall hear from the
					Bp. before that. I know God is able if it be His Holy will.We are going to use the other little cabin for a works shop as the one thought is really no good. I
					am glad we can soon get this one fixed.SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1921 309+12 at 10:30Nenana wonderful Northern lightsThis has been a right full day. I went down this morning and payed the bills then
					this afternoon recieved several visitors and studied some tonight we had a
					lesson and Moses learned "Oh' inert thou in the cane I
						blest" and one stanza of "The Ancient Mariner"I have not felt very well but feel better now. I have a full week before me. I
					shall probably go to Gibon after
					Thanksgiving.Justin Silas is going to cut 100 cords of wood and I am glad for I want him to
					have the work.Luke Jimee killed two moose which
					I am going to buy and some caribou. I let him have $2000I pray that God may grant that I go to Juneau for ordination I have thought of
					those at home today.310 SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1921+2 at 8:30 +8 at 10:00Nenana a bit cloudyThis morning I had service and preached on the story of Gideon over coming the
					Midionites. I did better in my extempore speechmaking. Tonight Justin Silas
					interpreted for the few that came and I talked on the healing of the Palsied man
					let down through the roof.Most of the afternoon I sat in my cabin alone and quite happy to be quiet.We had a lesson at 8:30 in Math. I hope Moses will be ready to enter Hernon next
					year and think he will be. God bless him in his life and work.I have desired very much lately to be ordained on St Andrew' Day if it be
					Gods will.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1921 311+20Nenana cloudy & windyThis morning Justin Silas went with me to find a place to cut timber we found a
					very decent place and I am putting in an application for a permit.Moses studied this afternoon and we had class this evening. He had a lecture on
					Tennyson by Miss Wright and re-peated it to me very well.Through these days there seems to be nothing on my mind more than being ordained
					on St Andrew' Day. I wish it were possible and know it is if it be
					'God's will. I hope it will be so. It will not be possible to go
						nuch after the 15th November but God is able and I trust it to himMay he also bless those at home.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1921about +20Nenana cloudy & windyThis morning I wrote to Fairbanks. Mrs Clegg and Mr Taylor. I
					do not expect to go up on Friday a telegram came from Miss Rich asking that I
					come down in a week or ten days but the dogs will not be ready and I shall
					probably go after Thanksgiving Moses is going with me.Tonight I sent a wire to the Bp. repeating my telegram of the 9th Sept. saying that I "wired you following telegraph on 9th Sept. Disappointed not discouraged" etc. and closed
					by saying no reply still hoping need growing work urgent He will get a good
					laugh out of the last four words anyway. Please God he will grant me my hearts
					desire not my will but God's be done. I even wish he might ask me to come
					to Seattle.We had lesson tonight Moses & I.I wrote Mrs High today.My hope is to be on my way to Juneau or Seattle in three more days.Wired you following telegram 9th Sept. Disappointed not
					discouraged. Will you please ordain me St Andrew's Day as requested Juneau
					according new canons serve this Diosese
						gocy metit passed further examinations am past 30 yr's of age
					carrying on my studies. no reply. still hoping need growing more urgent.
					Tatum. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.I buried little Daniel today by flash light. It was very sad to see the little
					coffin lowered. I had to wear my heavy sheep skin under my serplce. There was much wailing by
					the women and even the men cried It is sad to see life like that go.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1921 313+29 at 8:00Nenana cloudy & rain todayNo word from the Bp. and I am sorry for I have little time now to get a boat that
					will carry me to Juneau in time. I hope to hear tomorrow and hope to hear
					favourably God willing Moses interest in the matter helps to carry me on for he
					seems very anxious that I be ordained. I am glad for it is for him and his
					people that I so much desire it.A wire came from Mrs Clegg today insisting on my coming up I hope there is a
					train Saturday I hate to stay over Sunday. I wrote Dr
					Whitaker today and am glad to have done so.This afternoon I payed up my tieas and sent my petition for a permit on timber land. I hope I
					get it. The lesson tonight was a bit dull for my mind was so much on that
					ordination. Moses is most interesting though and it is a pleasure to teach
					him.314 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1921+30 at 10:00Nenana clear & beautiful moonThe children were skating tonight & I should like to have been with them but
					Miss W. & I went down for the mail. I had a nice letter from Rosa and
					several other good letters. $63 came which helps. Dranes letters annoy me very
					much.A letter from Dr Wood informed me that I am overdrawn to Dec.
						31st to the amount of 12800 I am sorry
					to have nothing for Christmas.No message from the Bp. today, but I learn that the cable is broken and the radio
					messages are much slower I hope to hear tomorrow and feel much encouraged.
					Surely God will hear the voice of my prayer. Indeed I hope so. I still have two
					chances to reach Juneau.The clothes came for which Miss W. wired and that is a relief. Mr Salt also spoke
					of the engine that is stored at the commission.The coal is being moved over to the old saw mill and it is quite a jobMiss W. & I did up xmas packages today and have all done save for the
					children here.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1921 315+26 at 10:30Nenana a half gale blowing.This blue ink is not out of harmony with my feelings today for I have never felt
					bluer. No word from the Bp. and I can only judge that he is not going to reply
					to my wire at all This is the archdeacons birthday and I have been thinking of
					him. I wish it were possible to be ordained on St Andrews Day the anniversary of
					his ordination. I reckon I must be pituedI was due to go to Fairbanks today and am glad I did not There is a big dance
					there and one down town. I did not go to this one either. I did not feel much
					like it.Dick OHearn is moving the coal in to the old blacksmith shop again today and I am
					glad. We found that some of it had been bering.I purchased a sled from Coghill today to do the work about here. We needed
					it.The children scated tonight so we got started later at our studies. We will get
					up in the morning to do some more Moses took a very good exam in math and
					grammar.I had service tonight in the mission I shall be glad when this groom is find so we can have it
					here.316 SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1921+12 at 10:30Nenana clear & beautiful.It seems very difficult to get up a sermon tonight I think I shall speak on
					"O Timothy keep that which is committed to thy Trust" I have always
					wanted to with a good sermon on that subject text.Moses & Dick O'Hearn finished the coal today and I am glad it is
					done.All morning we studied and Moses took some good examinations. He has decided to
					eat at our table tomorrow. He looks forward happily to going to Mount Hermon and
					I shall be happy if he can go and if I can prepare him by next year.No word from the Bp. makes me feel badly but it is all right.I have been thinking of those dear loved ones at home todayReceived a wire from MrsClegg saying she was sorry could not
					be in F'bks and that she understood. She will be through Nenana Friday en
					route to Anchorage.SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1921 317about +12 8:00Nenana cloudyThis morning I preached on "O Timothy keep that which is committed to thy
					trust" and got along better than I expected.This evening Moses (blind) talked to the people; few that there were. I find it
					difficult to learn the language without someone with the knowledge of English. I
					wish sometimes that Arthur were here.Moses is eating at our table now and when I asked him how he liked it he said
					"O it is not so bad after all."After dinner today I sent the Bp another wire."Anxiously awaiting reply. Will it be possible to ordain me Juneau or
					Seattle under conditions stated last telegram not one from Fort Yukon answer
					collect"Please God I shall get an answer to this and one expressing His will whether it
					be yes or no I pray only that His will may be done and I want nothing else.318 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 19210 at 7:00Nenana Clear &a beautiful moon.This morning I went down town for a bath and found a small bit of mail. Nothing
					for me. It took nearly the whole morning. I phoned Mr Edmonds & found that
					he had maild my permit a kid. I
					shall send it to Fairbanks tomorrow.This afternoon I studied and worked in the back room cleaning it up it was an
					awful mess. Tomorrow Moses & I are going to try to finish it up for a bed
					room. It will be very comfortable No word from the Bp. today and I did not
					really expect any. I may hear tomorrow. God grant that I may be ordained.While studing with Moses we had a long talk this afternoon The He certainly showed him self, by
					some of the things he told me a man, with moral courage, cleanliness and
					strength. God help him to always be thns.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1921 319+ 12 at 7:00Nenana High & cold wind.Well the telegram came from the Bp today and I am both glad and thankful It looks
					as though I shall be ordained before the winter is over though not on St
					Andrew's day."I can make no arrangements about time or place for your priests ordination
					until notified that all covincal
					requirements have been completed and recommendation made by standing committi.
					See Canon 8 section 4. Sorry for any delay. Will write fully. P.T. Rowe - sent 14th Nov.I am really glad it is this sort of a wire I should have felt badly if it had
					been meet an in J. or S. for
					ordination for I should have thought he was just out of patients. I wired Rev E
					P Hughes in Anchorage today asking lone of last Curious until mine conne. The Bp. probably thinks I have a copy. I shall send
					in an application right away.Today we worked on the back room and I hope to have the cabin in good shape in a
					day or so.I feel very tired tonigh, So moses read me some of Stephenson work It is
					interesting. Though full of incorrect knowledge of the Indian and very
					Egotistic.320 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 19210 at 10:30Nenana clear.A lovely xmas package came from Mrs High today. My clock which
					the Archdeacon carried for ten years and the Mission thermometer which I have just broken. It was not
					what I wanted anyway.Moses & I worked int he cabn this mornig and I did some more this afternoon.
					It will take a day or so to get it all done. I shall certainly be glad. We had
					class tonight. It seems right hard to study some times.I shall soon be down to my correspondence now. And I shall be glad.22 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1921 321+ 20 at 10:00Nenana clear. windy.All morning I worked with Moses on the back room and this afternoon Miss Nixon
					and Charlie helped me put down the rest of the paper roofing in the front room
					tonight we measured up the himg
					for the ceilng and the side wall in the back room it takes lots of time for me
					to get such things done it seems.Chief Thomas came down. I shall see him in the morning.We are getting in to Adam Bede now and Moses is enjoying it.Miss Nixon announces that Drane will be back in the Spring. I had hoped that I
					should have one happy year here, but it looks as though it will be cut short a
					few months and I am sorry.322 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1921Nenana clear & cold.Mrs Clegg came down today and I am sorry I did not get down to
					meet her. She came up in the afternoon with Mrs Fairbourne
					and Mr Bleeker. I like Mrs Clegg. very
					much. She is fine. She seemed to like Moses very much and is anxious to help
					him. I hope it will be possible to arrange it that he can take algebra with her.
					Moses is polishing up nicely I hope it will be possible for him to go out next
					year. To Hermon though I do not like Mt Hermon at all.Miss Nixon Miss Bridgeman and I went to the dance tonight. It was right good and
					I enjoyed it. They have a good floor. I suppose I should give more time to the
					people down town but it is right hard. My time is very full, and there is much
					to do.The work is growing heavier now, but I am enjoying it.I am sorry I shall not be ordand on St Andrews day I wish I could. If I am not
					ordained this winter there is no telling when I shall be.SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1921 323Nenana clear & windyThere was a big mail tonight Moses went down after it. It was good to have $35
					coming in I wish there might be a good deal more. The hills are very heavy and
					money is low. The wood is going to last a good deal this year.All day I have been working about the place. Sometimes here and sometimes at the
					Mission. Then there have been a good many inter mptions.Justin Silas has decided not to cut the wood 150 cords by contrad and it complicates things a
					good deal. I have not the permit yet and those things take a good deal of
					time.The mail tonight brought a nice letter from Mother. I am glad she has luislim in the Riticha and the back steps fixed. I
					hope I shall be able to have a good many things done I wish I could have a
					furnace put it, for the old house is right cold.324 SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1921+20 about 7:30Nenana clear & windyThe usual services today and I preached on "One of His Disciples, Andrew,
						Serious Peter's
					Brother, saith unto Him, There is a lad here which hath five barley leaves and
					two small fishes, but what are they among so many." Developing the
					importance of the "lad" that he, a child, had what God made use
					of.This afternoon we had a faculty meeting which was successful enough. I think that
					many errors can be corrected by such weekly meetings.This afternoon Moses & I read and we accomplished a good. We read to night
					also.I wrote to Drane to day. And th
						wo a short curt letter I hope it has effect.I am distressed over the wood situation It is quite difficult to find wood around
						here, but we must have some,
					and have it quickly.This week before me is a hard one.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1921 325+ 4 at 10:00Nenana clear, cold and windyThis morning I went down town and learned that the fee I must make for the permit
					for land is $25.00 I shall probably find difficulty in making it as I am very short of
					funds. In fact overdrawn $54 24 I am sorry for money is
					sometimes slow coming in.Dick O'Hearn is going to break in the team for pretty soon and tomorrow is
					going to have for us Luke
						Timn is cutting wood and
					Justin will finish up his right away. I am glad too. The wood situation is some
					what relieved.This afternoon I worked a while with Miss Nixon in the back room to get the
						lining on.Tonig Moses & I had a class. Miss Wright gave him a lecture on Colridge and
					he told it to me well.I am a bit distressed over a slight touch of the flu tial ad runig through the school326 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1921-7 at 10:15Nenana Dark & cloudy.We shall probably have some real cold weather now and I dread it. I am not
					standing the cold so well now as I use too This has been a somewhat discouraging
					day with little accom plished.Moses and Dick O'Hearn hauled wood all day and I am glad to see it coming
					in. Justin has about four cords and Luke Jhnnie two.Miss Nixon and I worked on the back room. I cannot seem to get to my letters as I
					should. I cannot see how I am at all fitted for the ministry I hope I am worth
					something some day.I plan to go to Tanana right after Thanksgiving about the 1st
					December.Miss W. was over and we diagnosed
					the "No" period of life. Life is very interesting.God be with those at home and bless them.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1921 327-8 at 8:30Nenana clear & beautifulAnother day over and a couple of letters writtenDick and Moses hauled some wood and Luke & Justin have cut some on Mission
					property. We shall have about 15 cords up and about 20 sawed by the time we
					leave for Gibon.a good many village people have arrived from Wn to and wood River for Mmiss W. pot latch tomorrow. She has worked
					very hard on it and spart a good
					deal. I never saw a more selfsacrificing spirit than she is.Tomorrows sermon is not yet prepared but I shall be up early in the morning and
					shall try to prepuse it
					then.Miss Nixon and I worked a bit on the back room abit.I had to pay Dick $75 today on his account of $110 for hauling wood and coal I
					hope and pray that money came in soon or I shall be in a bad fix.328 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1921Nenana ClearThanksgiving day and we are up early. at 6:00 a m Moses went over to cook some
					meat for Miss W. potlatch in Meen
						ry of Miss Forthing. I had service at 11:00 and all the people
					were there. Some did not come but I sent for them and waited untill they came.
					My teft was "Be ye perfect
					even as your facters which is in
					Heaven is perfect." I spoke to them specialy about not coming to Church and
					falling into temptation. and not resisting it.In the afternoon all the people came up to the Mission and it was a pitiable
					sight that all most made me urip-oues heart aches to see them in thir ignorance and poverty
					of spirit & flesh. A good man of the Nuits people rure
					up. We all dance dIndian dances. I long to do something for them.Dick Hearne came up for supper and we all sat at the long table It work fast. All evenig we danced and
					went to bed at 12: p m I heart goes out to these people.I wrote Mother & MrsFortr Yesterday I hope to do
					much writing this hunkFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1921 329+10 at 10:15Nenana clear-Tonight Moses and I went to the movie. I for the first time arspassed through the village they
					were making nudasine in Dick
					Henrys cabin Moses told me of his experience when they made medacine on him.
					There is inherent in them a superstition and the poor people cannot help it As
					long as there are old people there will be medacine making. I do not feel there
					are many of the younger men that really believe in it though they will some tims
					take a chance. It may be that that is why God has taken so many of them away
					though it is not fair for me to say this.Chief Thomas is disappointed that the Crossing people are not coming down.My stalrs purple & sed came
					to day they are beautiful330 SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1921Nenana cloudy.This morning I sawed wood and had a long talk with Henry Thomas. About medacine
					making & drinking. He seems Eager to have no drinking in the Village at Xmas
					time. Those store keepers sell the natives Vanilla. These poor people I am sorry
					for them they try to do right and in their effort seem to do wrong.Henry & Drick both admitted
					they believed in medacine poor souls I suppose thy have to be educated out of it
					and that is the only way I see.Moses is quite sick with a cold and I am worried about him. I shall doctor him up
					good tonight and please God he will soon be all right.SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1921 331+ 4 at 9:00Nenana clear & darkIwas up most of the night with Moses last night and I am glad to say he feels
					better today. I believe he will be all right in a day or so. He has been in bed
					all day.I had service in this morning and preached on "Sunon Son of Jonas levest there mie E etc. The church was cold so I cut the Service
					short. Tonight I went around the village and had no service.I was distressed to find a white man in Sabbis cabin with Abbie. How diff-erent are things now to seven
					years ago. I do not now just what steps to take some times.God bless & be with those at homeThe first trougr expersior trai
						cane through from Anchoage today.332 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1921about 10째 below - evening - Nenana clear & stillMoses not feeling well this morning he stayed in the cabin and read Stephansons
					"My Life with the Eskimo". It thoroughly disgusts him some times to
					see the mans egotism and to read such untruths as he reads these
					misrepresentations of the life in the North. This afternoon we studied and made
					some progress.I wrote several letters this morning and hope to get a good many done this week.
					I wrote Deaconess Pick I would be down there for the 11th December if
					possible.This evening we went down to Coghill for dinner It was pleasant enough but we had
					to say until 11:15 when I wanted to be back by 9:00. I was never in such misery
					before. Never was I madder. Moses waited me and I was boiling over when I had a
					chance to vent my wrath.I thought the mail might be in, but it was not and I am sorry I want very much to
					hear from the BpMay God bless and keep those loved ones at home. They are constantly in my
					thoughts and prayers.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1921 333+ - 12 at 8:30Nenana Clear & Still.This morning I went down town on some business and met MrSheares I asked him to look up
						Mr Underhill about whom Dean Christian with me.This after noon we studied and sawd wood. This evenig we studied again.There is much to do now before Christmas Every much to will be full I reckon. I hope to accomplish a good
					deal. The Salchaket and Tanana Crossing trip comes immediately after Christmas.
					I wonder what the Bp. is going to have me do. I shall be willing to be ordained
					this winter sometime is he
					wishes it. Is not until Sunner will change weathers greatly.
					I am daily seeing my unfitneers
					for the ministry. as well as being unfitted Tomorrow is St Andrew's Day when I had hoped to be
					ordained. It was the day the Dear Archdeacon was ordained and the Bp. coudcuts not that the latter has so
					much significance save that he was my second Bp. as a loyura and first as a Deacon.
					God's will be done not mine.Life is deepening in many ways but I am a poor miserable creature.334 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1921-10 at 8:15Nenana clear - cloudy & sunnyI woke today with sad reflections and bitter disappointment to meet anxious
					sorrow through the passing hours. After prayers Miss Wright handed me a kindly
					and thought ful note she had written me last night. It was consoling, but
					brought in some ways my disappointment more closely to me To day is the day I
					should have been ordaind had I been found worthy in the sight of God. How I
					should like to have carried on the Archdeacons work having been ordained on the
					anniversary of his ordination, but it was not and I am sorry.I worked in the woods after Moses returned from town. This afternoon I helped
					again to get a load read for Dick to haul and he came up and hauld it which I
					sawd wood with the boys. There is no better way to set aside sorrow and
					disappoint-ment, though it is always with you, then to work out of doors.Some preparations were made for the trip to Tanana as we plan to leave
					Monday.Moses came to "a Crisis" in Adam
						Bide tonight or he is interestedTHURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1921 335- 12 at 8:30Nenana Clear & Still.This has been a day filled with sorrow. I spent last night in prayer. I wish I
					could understand a few of these mysterious things that happen.Moses worked on the penip this
					morning and we triped with Dick to get a sled this after noon. Tom strand (Soroge) let us have his
					for the trip to Tanana. It is the one that Drane sold him (the stupid fellow)
					for some Senall sem first for
					the sake of the money he got out of it It is the sled we took over to the
					Mountains with the repairs Tom has made it is good for many year I wish I could buy it. The Dear
					Archdeacon had it made in the Kayakuk in 1910 and used it tntil Egaias brought it back from the base camp. It brings back
					sad and pleasant memories I can see the Archdeacons hird sack hanging on it, and there stands the Dear
					Archdeacon and the Naudh bas and
					there stands Walter. May their souls rest in peace in Paradise.336 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1921+1 at 10:30Nenana cloudy & windyIt has been difficult through these past few days to face the difficulties in
					real life and to realize that my idealistic nature will not sometimes meet
					realistic and practical problems. My mysticism has stooped to face them with me
					but I still feel the blows as they come. Were not God present with me I could
					not stand. I have felt for the first time like throwing up my job more and more I realize how unfit and
					unfitted I am for the ministry.This has been a day of puttering more or less. Getting ready to leave for Tanana
					there is much to do.All day I have tried to prepare a sermon but my mind has been too much on other
					things.I had a long talk with Miss Wright to night on life in general and a few details
					in particular.No class to day and no studying myself.My mind and heart is much on those Dear ones at home. I hope I shall hear
					tomorrow night.23 SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1921 337+1 at 10:15Nenana Cloudy. windy.This has been a day full of small duties and happines than the past week though
					no less more occupied. I tried to
					write my sermon ofoe Tanana and
					found it difficult but have made some progress. Little by little I am learning
					the causes of the effidstial
					have been so distressing. It is only when we submit our wills entirely to
					God's will that that peace comes that pooreth under-standing.Moses & Dick broke in the dogs today and they are a live team. I wish I could
					anticipate the trips I have to make this winter. The work is sometimes most
					disheartening and I am sorry I am so unfit for it.I sent an afidavit to the Sand Office in Fairbanks today saying that we would cut
					wood only for the Warrior on the land for which the Permit is granted. This
					relieves our paying Shurparge
					which would amount to $60 or $75.A big mail comes in tomorrow and I am glad. I hope some money comes with I expect
					the Bps. letter also.338 SUNDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1921+6 at 8:00Nenana Cloudy&windyThis morning I went over with Dick and Mr MacIntosh to find
						Lesuwre leen and post the
					notice for the permit for termites. I posted one at the upper side of the upper big lake
					where Mr Finch cut wood last year. The others I shall post
					near the patch of timber Justin Silas sehctd of our Lescues line up river near the river, and I think
					it comscts with this other patch
					by which I posted the notice.Miss W. took church service as I got back late. After Dinner Mrs Clegg phoned and I went down to see her & the Judge.A mail came in and a latter from the Bp. included to applicatons which I shall
					fill out and have signed. I wired Judge Clegg to see if he would be willing to
					have expestrymn sign it and
						Rev Edin Hughes to see if he
					would sign it. I shall send them to the Bp. and hope to hear by February. I see
					little chance of being ordaind before March, but that is all right I guess, I do not know just what I
					shall do under certain circumstances that may develope. God be with me.MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1921 339+9: at 9:00 still nowNenana cloudy windy all dayThis morning I went over to place the notice at the timber patch and find that
						Lescure claim it I shall
					have to see to it when I return from Tanana. Moses and I leave tomorrow and I am
					sorry I do not anticipate the trip with a great deal of pleasureDick Olterarn & Moses took
					the dogs for a run this afternooon and I worked on my sermon. I have the
					finisher and shall have to learn it nan on my way down.I am a little distressed that I have no money to start out with and to buy
					necessities. I have but a small amountWe are all packed up and the sled is ready to load.A wire came to day saying that Mr Hughes would sign the
					application Haurs. I am glad and
					hope to hear from mr Clegg.340 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1921Enroute to Tanana - 30 at 8:00Johnnie Campbells Road House clear.This has been a day filled with anxieties and fears with Joys and glad
					anticipations. As I held the handle bars of that sled for a large part of the
					day I could not help but think of the Arch-deacon and Walter. For many years he
					drove it. I thought of him in his anxieties and fears, of his distress and
					anguish of the Spirit of the hopes and ambitions, and of Walter's
					kindliness and amiability. What a pleasure it is to be making this trip.Miss W. Nixon, and B. were up to see us off They were very kind.The whole trip was a hard one. The newly broken in dogs were tired and Moses
						brood sholder to a rope
					attatched to the tow line I pushed on the handle bars.We did not stop at the native village as were were late and did not get in here until six oclock.There was a good supper shortly after we got off our wet clothes and fixed the
					dogs up.WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1921 341Taboous RoadHouse cloudy &
					snowing.This has been a very hard wen
					though we had beet 20 miles to
					make. All has gone most pleasantly, however, in spite of the hard and tiring
						tabous.We got in about five oclock put up the dogs and waitd a while for a fairly good
						time. Then we fed the dogs
					and listend to some music.At 7:15 we started studying. Moses read some "Adam Bede" and took a
						couble of seutines passing.
					Then a very funy stayor in O be drecent
						Manner. "The very deep did rot. A chrrot" etc. I said over my verses for the
					sermon and practiced my sermon a bit on Moses- poor boy.The old man that keeps the Road House is a very funny old man and has furnished
					as much entertainment up oir
						sleepes. We are ready for bed and shall be off early in the
					morning to make 18 hard more miles. God be with us and those at home. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.The funny old man said "You can peddle to them women like I can paddle to them two dogs of mine but thers.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.342 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1921Quite coleDugan Creek Road House clear.This has been one of the hardest days we have had though only 18 miles gone by.
					The dogs were tired and we were tired.We got in here at 3:00 and found an army offices very kindly, here. He offered us
						leader or his for which we
					are most thankful. He says they anticipate my coming on Sunday & is anxious
					that I got there. I hope we can. We have 16 miles to make, but may be able to do it by Sunday
					afternoon.I have practiced my sermon some and the R.H. man made a hot fire in our back room
					so we could study. Moses read some in Adam Bede. And we are now ready for
					Hetty's trial.We shall be off early tomorrow mornig.I am thinking of my dear Mother to-day She is 65 years old. May God bless her and
					grant her many happy returns.FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1921 343- 5 at noonWood Chopper. a little cloudy.This has been by far the hardest day we made 18 miles by 12:45 and then went over
					the Hot Springs Divide 3 miles up hill and 1 1/2 down. We made the up hill
						then in two hours and got in
					at 6:30 very tired. We had lunch ($300 for the two of us) at
					2 or 3. Our nights cost $800 I have tried to study a bit but
					am really too tired.At Hot Springs I med Descous
						Pisla "Hope to be in Tanana in time to or Every  Service Sunday. To go slow. Sorry". We really
					expect to get in about noon. We have 38 miles more and then Sa R.H. at Big Lake
					19 mi from here. We shall spend tomorrow night there.The Dogs are much better.The leader the Lieut. loned us broke loose and ran back. He was no good any way
					and I am glad to be rid of him.These have been several here all eving and Moses pleaded Friday as bud night off. I am a bit sorry to see that attitude
					but he does not seem too ernest
					any way. He is pleasant enough though and his kirdlins ruaders up for oiter short comings. I have been thinking of the The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.Dear Archdeacon much to day.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.334 SATURDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1921Long Lukes +12 at noonMcMillans RH. 15 mi from Tanana Very windyThis has be a short day of 14 mi. and we got in about 3:00 The ride over long
					lake was difficult because of the wind.I have read a bit of Adam Bede myself and have studied my sermon some. Now I am
					ready for bed as early as it is. We hope to get in by noon tomorrow.I hope all is going well at Nenana and that Wearouess Pichr is not worrying too much over my lateness I
						had hs been quite a pleasant
					trip so far. My God give us His continued blessings all throgh.SUNDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1921 345Tanana clearWe arrived here at 10:00 this morning and much to my distress I busted the sled
					just as we rolled in I shall get Chas. Smith at the post to fix it.I preached to a rather large congregation of natives and had two bop team and to nuse received. Andrew, Edwin Clara
					Butler (Margarie Charlie David Sam, recd.)The hurried afternoon was passed eating and talking. There was much to go
					over.I went over my sermon several times but I was very very tired
					and could not remember all of it when I got up to preach. The church in the
					Evenig was packed and people standing. It was very en-couraging.After service we had a meeting and they decided to have service every other week.
					A Methodist and Presbyterian agreed to read the Service. I am happy over the
						Seturation. I am leaving
					some sermons for Jay Readers.
					They are DrReese and Capt. Barndollar. I
					shall try to get two dogs and a sleigh while here. Had a talk with Bop.. who is in love with Miss
						Kotchet. He is a Belgium.
					The situation at the Allakakaet is serious.346 MONDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1921Tanana. CloudyThis evening Deaconess & I went down to Capt. Barndollars to an informal
					reception. It always ammuses me be
					when I go anywhere and the people think they cant alk of any things are religion.It has been pleasant to be here and talk over affairs with The Deconess.I wired DrRood to day asking if I could
					make a draft on the Bond for $20000 for two dogs and sled and
					expenses back - Also wired Miss Wright to send blanks to Judge Clegg I shall be
					glad when the come back and are
					then forwarded to Mr Hughes.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1921 347-18 this afternoonTanana windy and cloudy.This morning we went down town to get the sleds fixed, but have to go again in
					the morning.I bought a few things from the N.P. and called on Mrs
					Merand.This evenig we went to MrsW Smitihs for dinner and afterwards
					had Service. two babies were baptized Howard Mcloh and JohnnieMoses and I read some Adam Bede The Chapt. on the trial suspense, and Second
					meeting in the Esvei Moses
					thought Adam was week as I always do.We were unsuccessful in securing dogs and I am sorry. Mike Michoh has some but he was half shot
					tonight and I could not talk with him. I hope to see him tomorrow. I also hope
					to hear from Dr Wood tomorrow. Please God I shall have
					favourable wood to make a draft on the Board.348 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1921milderTanana cloudyTo day Miss Pick & MrsSmath Bechotrd Christmas. I sent
					out a box of apply and we pann
						bthen each a box on candy.Formid able to serve them pretty
					good dogs at $30 each harness thrown in.Mr & Mrs Merard & Mr Adams were out
					for supper.THURSDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1921 349milderTanana snowingWe went down after the dogs this morng & this afternoon Mrs Prich & I
					went to the Post for Supper to Dr & Mrs Rowes. It was very pleasant.This way we had served and a good way were out.350 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1921Tanana clearThis morning I wrote to the Bp. about my application. Bdt Ian Gottin, & Miss Catchett, Mrs Wilson and the $1000
					& Drane. Also wrote Deaconess Thayer and Miss Cotchelt. and Rev. MJames about Mr James about Mrs Sarah Wilson.Moses & Miss Pick went down town this afternoon while I rested and spent the
					afternoon in prayer. May God be pleased to hear me and to bless those so dear to
					my heart.This evening at dinner I had a chell thouugh not a hard one Miss Prete packed me up in Watsbuts and MrsSenth played the victioln We plan to leave in the
					morning I hope I feel well enough.I had hoped to take Teddy and another little boy back with me but could not
					persuade them.A wire came from Mis Wright
					wondering about me. I wired her that I was leaving Saturday. With nine dogs we
					hope to make a quick trip.SATURDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1921 351Tanana clear & cold.We were up at six this morning with the good intentions of leaving, but my
						chill last night continued
					till this morning and kept Moses up several times so I stayed in bed most of the
					day. Miss Pick took care of me most kindly.In the Afternoon Moses and Miss Pick went down town and I spent the afternoon in
					prayer. There have been many things on my mind and I have been filled with
					sorrow and distress. Surely they will come to a climax before very long and I
					dread the hour.This evenig Mrs Smith came over and we sat around and talked
					and played records. She went with Johnie Campbell and MrsMerand to Mulleus for Diner.Moses loaded and lashed the sled this afternoon so we are all ready to start
					tomorrow. With nine dogs we should make good time.It has been a pleasure to be here Miss Rick
						is all if not the best worker we have in Alaska.I am sorry I have not been able to visit more in the Village. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					and top of the page.Moses and I finished Alan Bede this afternoon. I think he en-joyed it and got
					something out of it. He does not say very much about anything one way or the
					other. I wish he did. Miss P. says he lacks nove how than what wirt Mr Drane.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					and top of the page.352 SUNDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1921+2 at 5:00Fish Lake Roade House Rain cloudy & Dark.(a dirty filthy place)We had a poor supper as we expected.Deaconess Pick came nearly to Millens with us and we took some pictures on a beautiful lake
					with a lovely sunrise The nice dogs have tracked all day about 6 miles per hour.
					We got here at 2:00 p.m. and decided to make a short day of it so we can get an
					early start in the morning and make Dugan Creek R.H. tomorrow thrty Eight miles
					from here. We hope to make Johnnie Campbells the day fol-lowing and Nenana
					Wednesday. all has been pleasent enough to-day in a way. I hated to see Miss
						Rich turn back.I have never been more nervous than at lunch today. Even Moses noted it and asked
					me if I had a chill of rhumatism. I appreciated this interest.We hope to have an earlly start in the morning. Moses studied a bit. though not
					much. I wish he had a keener interest in his studies he is not progressing very
					well. I am eager  The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.for him to be truly prepared to Enter Hernon.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.24 MONDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1921 353+15 at noon.Dugan Creek R.H. Rain & SnowingThis has been the hardest day on the trip. After a miserable night last night we
					started out at 6:30 a m and and made Billy Fords at 12:00 m. I suf-fered terribly with the
					rhumatism until I got warm there and too 10 grains of asperine. I worked pretty hard through the
					morning but was unable to do much over the Divide Moses broad shoulders took the
					brunt of the burdenn. This after noon we were to stop at Hot Springs but I knew
					I could not stand to pass a night there filled with miserable anxious fear. By
					the Grace of God I felt well enough to come on here Before we got in through the last mile I was
					tireder than I have ever been in my life. I staggered on the trail like a drunke
					man.We had a good supper and Moses hurried and the stanza of the "Ancient Mariner" we will
					make Johnnie Campbells tomorrow night with out the hills to well not be as hard. God Grant His
					Blessing The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.on us through this trip and after our return. And on those at home.The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.354 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1921+34 at 7:00Andersen's RH at Tolorana clear& windyFred Racy gave me $150 to get bag of oranges for the children
					at NewtonsThis has be a hard day for the dogs over about 4" of soft snow and we had to
					stop here instead of Johnnie Campbell. I wired Miss Wright & Miss Pick.There is a skinner here and Fred R. at the supper table we got to talking about
					womens dress. The subject went much too far for which I am sorry especially on
					Moses accont. I have learned to head off that subject when it comes up again if
					I can.Most of the Evenig we have been talking of the miodon.Racy has left a pair of emclulks
					for me to wear tomorrow but I dont think I will take them Have moccasins and clothes are
					sokeing wet.These are long days when we have to stay so long in one RH.The funny old man got a letter from his wife and we have not heard the end of her
						gainig 2 E bless God grant
					his Blessings on us.WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1921 355+12 at 12:00 m Rain this
					morningJohnnie Campbells RH Mn to Clear
					& colderWe made only 20 miles today and got in here at 11:00 a.m. met Lieut Shtoon on the way.This afternoon we went up to the Village and visited a while with the Indians.
					Moses went and did a thing I little expected. He got the best of me by his
					shrewdness and I have felt pretty miserable over it since, but it is over and
					done. Many unpleasant things have happened on the trip, but I am as much to
					blame for my allowing them to happen as he is too. We shall be on the last lap
					to-morrow morning early, and I am glad. I find there are two babies to be
					baptized here. They may be up for Christmas if not I shall baptize them when I
					return later.I read Hamlet or rather finished it this afternoon. How dreadful the tragedy is
					that word "No" so Ihalism leads one to tragedy. Hamlet him-self did not suffer more
					from it than have I.I dread these next few weeks and wen month. They are hard over for me, but must be
						dully suffered. I am glad to suffer them. The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.My dear Mother and family have been much on my mind to-dayThe preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.356 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1921+22째 a10:00 snow all dayNenana cloudyWe got in this afternoon about 1:30 There was a funeral awaiting me at The grove.
					Two babies from The Toklat,
					after a good time to look over my mail and freshen up we had tea and Moses went
					down for another mail which was very satisfactory.The trip ended fairly enough. I had a chance to talk with Moses and I feel much
					happier over the whole situationwith the thirty miles to make today we got an early start but got on the wrong
					trail and wasted an hour. Constant snowfall made heavy going. and it took about
					six hours.$215 came in the mail and I feel much relieved. There was forty waitng me
					here.A wire and letter from Bill Stoney made me very happy.I hope that all will be well with Moses and his studies. I am worried about them
					for he must know as Rumer
					interest if he is to enter Hermon next year. I pray God's Blessings on the
					lad. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 23, 1921 357Warm.Nenana cloudy & snowingI had service tonight and there were a large number of village people there. The
					children all went to the Picture Show, but Moses and Joe did not come home until
					midnight. These Christmas times are mcir-tain timesI went through the village this afternoon and this morning went down town. I
					wrote to mother tonight.This morning I sent telegram to all the Missions in the Interior358 SATURDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1921Iwto warm.Nenana clear snowingThis has been one of the bluest days I have had since I have been here. There are
					no promises for a very happy Christmas for me this year. But God is with me.Tonght I had the Anti Commion
					service. I wish I hught have
						Commion in the morning.This after noon I baptized two Infants Eva. daughter of Noa and Abby and Jonnie
					son of John Paul & June.I sent a wire home today.The people down town have been most kind and sent up front and mtts and candy. Christmas will be
					happy enough for the children.I went to see Mr Hagen about the Reservation law and drinking,
					etc. in the village. I do not anticipate a great deal of trouble.SUNDAY, DECEMBER 25, 1921 359+9 at 10:00Nenana clearAll rose to a happy Christmas day I suppose save myself. This has indeed been the
					most unhappy in the history of my young life. I wish I could solve these
					difficult problems that present themselves. Thieves and robbers there are
						wen of mens souls. It drags
					my soul in the mine to see it an
					breaks and crushes my spirit. I wish I were not so much of an Idealist some
					times I wish I were not born so much of a gentleman. If God were not with me I
					should perish, and come utterly to an end.The big room at Tortella was beautiful this morning. We sang one verse of
					"It came upon a midnight clear and the children all came down. It was a
					lovely sight. Elizabeth threw up her hands and said "look at all my
					things." All the childrens seemed most happy. There was a real Christmas
					Spirit among them such as I never saw before. at eleven oclock we had Service
					and I preached on "Peace". TheSee pg. 65360 MONDAY, DECEMBER 26, 1921+6 at 8:30 _10 at 1:00 a.m.Nenana clear & windy.Tonight I wrote Mrs Benedict & MrsEggbrtn almost all day I worked
					in the back room with Joe & Miss Nixon in the morning and Miss Nixon in the
					afternoon. At 4:00 Miss N & Miss B. and Moses came in for tea.There was the Christmas dance at the Mission and I danced with each of the girls
						were little GerterI pray Gods Blessings on Moses and the children here and especially on those dear
					loved ones at home.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 27, 1921 361+4 at 11:00Nenana Snowing & windy.To day I have acomplished very little. I have felt very miserable. Surely things
					will soon come to a climax I almost wish I could do some thing to cause it but I
					find it difficult to be any thing but kind and indulgent. I wish I were not so
					much of an idealist.I shall probably have to go to Fair banks to morrow or nxt day. I am sorry and
					yet it may be well. I wish it were going to be possible to go to Silcha for Chri the New Year.Chief Thomas was in today and wants to have a dance for the white people in town.
					I told him he could not but I am not sure what he will do about it. Probably
					have it.I had three baptisms and a short service this evening. Not many of the people
					were out.362 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1921+4 nearly all day +12째 at 10:00 PMNenana snowing.We were up late today. and I spent most of the day on my books. This evening the
					children danced Englsh dance in the big cabin so I spent most of my time in the
					Village.This afternoon I went over to wen-sure the wood Luke and Matthew cut and found it was a short
					five cords. I also found that West
						Keefe put in applications for that patch of timber after I posted
					my notice. This is some more of Dick O Hearne's dirty work. He wanted to
					extend the courtery to obligate
					us. It maks me sick at heart the way he is drawing Moses away, not slowly, but
					indeed very rapidly. I hate for the boy to turn away from me I am so eager to
					help him. I am so fond of him and wish I could do something for him. Surely God
					will not always stand for the robbers of souls. Please God Moses will not have
					to suffer too much.THURSDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1921 363FairbanksI cam eup on the afternoon train and met a most embarrasing situation. The Cleggs
					were cold and Mr Taylor incordial. I am staying at the N.C
					dormitory. I wish I had stayed at the Hotel. I shall here after. I can only
					anticipate a miserable night.364 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1921FairbanksThis day has been a bit more pleasant in that I had a long sleep. Tonight I went
					around to a meeting of the ex army men and it was most unpleasant. They told
					nothing but dirty stories and I had nothing to say. Earl with me made it more
					embarressing for me to want to get away.Mr Clegg had my applications signed up to be sent to the
					Bp.SATURDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1921 365NenanaFarrbanksToday366 MEMORANDAConversation with Dr Wood. Church Missions House. Tuesday July
						26thDr Wood asked me if the board had give appropriated me a clothing allowence when I replied
					"No" he said "Well, I guess you I had better make you out a check right at once then".
					Nothing at all was said of Dr Whitaker. I asked him if this
					came out of my salary and he said it was an appropriate of the Board. It was
						dipuritily settled that my
					term of service would be three years. Furlough was not setteled. He gave me a
					cheque for $25000 for my insurance which will come out of my
					salary which I suppose is $110000 per year. Stupidly enough I
					did not ask but as my term of service is but three years I am sure the salary is
						10$110000 with
					out question He said he had read a will from Bp. Rowe at Tanana calling for a man for Tanana and another stating
					that the Firhern bill was pas for was not in effect but porfosed. She wrote to Washington.
					May God grant it shall be effective. He wants me to find a man for Tanana but
					all Deaconess Piahs willingness
					for the Hoppers to come in. I
					think they would be suited in many ways and could make them selves very
					useful.MEMORANDA 367Recd. 1350019130|Pullman to Chicago 648 Transfer to Erie station 2.00 Supper 2.50 Tips 1.00 Pull. to Lincoln 4.05 Meals & tips 3.65 Trans Chuags 2.80 Pull. from Lincoln to Seattle 14.31 Meals & tips 3.75 Meals 5.62 Hotel Seattle 9 00 Meals & tips Seattle 11 00 Baggage & Trans 3 00
					Boat 'P. Victoria" Skagway } 10.00 750 1 00 " "Princess Royal". } 50Telegrams 750 [The following text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.]Aug 1,2,3. 315519130[The preceding text is written sideways on the left side
					of the page.]4051253151802753902|960480624182|12562 1/22401253654.05 to LincolnTrans.3.15 Meals1 25 Breapp6666Expence account.368 MEMORANDAKnoxville. to NY CityJuly 15th to July 23rd amt. recd. 4000RR fare. K. to Ash. NC $3.40" " Ash to Wash. DC 12.42Berth 4.86Meals 1.95RR fare Wash. DC to Phila. 2.16Pullman 1.22Lunch 80RR fare Phila to NY. 1.75Transportation 50Total 29 06Bal. to be taken from my Salary acct. 10.94N.Y. to Nenana 29th July 1st Sept.Amt received 13500Pullman 24.84Transfer 8.80Meals & tips on train 6 days 30.52" " " Seattle $11 00 included in thisHotel Seattle 3 days 9.00Tips on Steamer 10.00Business Telegrams 7.50Total 81 66Ballance to be taken from my account 53 3410 94Total to be taken from my acct. $6428RATES OF POSTAGE.Official at time of printing. As changes are expected inquire at Post Office.United States and Possessions, Canada, Mexico, Cuba, and Shanghai, China.First Class (letters, etc.) . . . . . . per ounce 2cSecond " (newspapers, periodicals) . . . . 4 " 1cThid " (all circulars and miscellaneous printed matter. Miscellaneous
					printed matter over 4 lbs. sub-ject to 4th class rates) . . . . . 2 "
					1cFourth " (merchandise, books, etc.) see Parcel Post.Registration Fee (extra postage) . . . . . . . 10cSpecial Delivery ( " " ) . . . . . . . 10cPostal Cards (reply cards 2c) . . . . . . . 1cLocal or Drop Letters (where no free delivery) . . . . 1cPostal Savings Bank (inquire at P.O.)MONEY ORDERS.-For sums not exceeding $2.50, three cents; over $2.50 to $5, five
					cents; over $5 to $10, eight cents; over $10 to $20, ten cents; over $20 to $30,
					twelve cents; over $30 to $40, fifteen cents; over $40 to $50, eighteen cents;
					over $50 to $60, twenty cents; over $60 to $75, twenty-five cents; over $75 to
					$100, thirty cents.REFORWARDING.-Letters will be forwarded from one post office to another upon the
					written request of the person addressed, without additional charge; but
					unclaimed packages cannot be returned to the sender until stamps are furnished
					to pay the return postage.PARCEL POST, for United States and Possessions.(Inquire at Post Office.)Owing to frequent changes in rates, weights, etc., we deem it impracticable to
					attempt to give accurate information.Postage to Foreign Countries.Letters for Canada, Cuba, Mexico, British Isles, Newfound-land, Republic of
					Panama, U. S. Postal Agency at Shanghai, China; Leeward Islands, Windward
					Islands, Bahamas, British Honduras, Dominican Republic, Trinidad, Dutch West
					Indies, Duch St. Martins, Barbadoes, British Guiana and New Zealand . . . . . .
					. . per ounce 2c" for other countries (each additional oz. or fraction 3c) " "
					5cPostal Cards (reply cards, 4c) . . . . . . . . 2cNewspapers and printed matter (weight limited to 4 lbs, 6 ozs,) 2 ozs. 1cSample merchandise (every additional 2 ozs. 1c) first 4 " 2cCommercial papers (every additional 2 ozs. 1c) first 10 ozs. or fraction 5cRegistration Fee (extra postage) . . . . . . . 10cReply Coupons (to prepay return letter) . . . . . 6cParcel Post (inquire at P.O.) . . . . . . per lb. 12cMoney Orders (inquire at P.O.)Counting=House Calendar.1922.Standard Diary No. 307To duplicate this Diary for the year 1922 order EARLY of your Stationer.After Dec. 1 editions are sometimes out of print.M__________________________________________________Please send the above Standard Diary toName_______________________________________Address____________________________________ASK YOUR STATIONER TO SHOW YOU THESEStandard Diaries for 1922STANDARD DIARY NOS. 380, 381 STANDARD DIARY NOS. 720 TO 726 AND 736 TO 748 NOS.
					408, 470, 472, 474DESIGNED FOR BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL MEN. COMPACT AND CONVENIENT. DIARY AND
					CASH ACCOUNT, MEMORANDA OR ENGAGEMENTS.[Back Cover]