Page 1

Mrs. E. A.R. Breck Charlotte North Carolina Care of Capt. R.M. Ramsey or W. Davidson Alexander or W. Davidson Alexander Esq Misint Forwarud

Page 2

River Side Jany. 28. 1872 My Dear Liddy Yours of the 14th was duly recd. You have heard before now (by my Post Script in letter to Sue & W.A. enclosing draft on N.Y. for $85.00) that we were then well or I would have answered yours to your Ma before now & besides I have nothing new or strange. you letter was long & full of course more satisfactory. We love to hear all the incidents you gave of Aunt Abbeys visit - of Alice Caldwell - the daughter of my favorite cousin Dr. J.D.C, -of Dr. Henderson & family - your trip to town with Aunt Harriett - your pleasant visit to Rob - his politeness & attention (he is always that) & the apples & candy for the children & the welcome you got on your return from little Bartie & all about her doll - & what she said about uncle MK. All these things interest & entertain & amuse the whole of us I am glad too that you did not forget Jimmie - the fine little fellow. MK. calls him Jim. I hope no one else there does so. Call him James. Jimmie or if not these Ramsey - anything but Jim. He will never have any self respect & of course no respect from others if he is spoken of or to by that negro name Jim I am in sober earnest - if I had been called that way no A.B. no A.M. nor M.D. would have been legitimatly affixed to my name. I never could have aspired to any thing high, or excellent or even clever. Do you hear that Sue & Sue & Mr. A. ? Now dont forget it. There is a heap in it any how. You enquire for your Aunt Mary Ann Kellers He. W.S. has been down there ever since you left.

Page 3

but returned last week. your Ma wrote down to her yesterday to enquire about her condition - no answer yet from her but MK. saw Col. J. H. C. two days ago & he told him Mary Ann was just as she had been. The operation was not performed & I hope will not be as I never knew one to get well after it. Not one. You enquire for that old hag at L.s that needs no thing but a Beard and a pair of Breeches to make her a man. She got her walking papers soon after we left & has gone I dont know where. MK. saw Dr. M Donough in town who told him this. None of us has inquired about her. Dr. L has gone to the mountains to be absent a week or two as he wrote me I dont know his business but Dr. Mc D. thinks it is to find a wife. The little boys have not been up yet to see us. Tom Ramsey writes me they are well & much interested in some things I had written to them. MK. has compromised his suit with Mead who came up to see him last week. He has negotiated very well - gives him $300.00 & qrts immediate possession He gets this years rent $150.00 besides the ferry. I am glad that is off his hands - it might have run on for ten years more. It is good property well worth 4 or 5,000. MK. & the little boys have hauled 16 logs to Boyds mill & will soon have plank to fix the fences near & around the house. Willie & Millie are both going to a singing school & learn very well. Your Ma I think is quite better since MK. got here. The weather has been very cold- snow now 6 inches deep. Ice house nearly filled & some mush ice is on the river. A.R.C. has not yet returned from Texas - they will not move there. J.M.C. has bought that country property of his out at Crozier D. Mrs. Bakers house & all in it up burned New Years night, It is terrible, All of you must be very careful of your fires, I believe I have exhausted my topics & my paper too. When it gets warmer I wish to comply with Mr. Williams request to write the history of Hopewell give our love to all friends - Write often. Rob ought to write too. I am glad to hear his sales are so good. Kiss all the grand children for us, Affectionately J.G.M. Ramsey

