Page 1

Clayton, Ala. April 22nd. 1871. Dr. J.G.M. Ramsey: Dear Sir, From a limited acquaintance in former years, I have presumed to address you on a subject in which you doubtless feel interested I suppose you have seen two articles in the Davidson Monthly touching Rev. H.J. Balch and some of his friends. These have suffered such fearful injustice at the hands of the printers, that I was tempted after the appearance of the first no. to with hold all the others, I have written a good deal for the Press in Philadelphia, Columbia and other places and have edited two papers since the war and I generally have found the proof correct. the second no. of my articles referred to is more correct than the first: but instead of " attrition of one mind on another, " it is attention & making sheer nonsense. the date of Mr. B.s. licensure in his epitaph

Page 2

is printed 1758 instead of 1768. this must be the result of carlessness as Mr. B. was then only 12 years old. Another no. has been snt on, and if it be not out of your power, I request you to read the proofs and see that these errors do not recur in the future. These facts are published to prevent being lost: and as they may be arawn in by future historians, it is very important that they should be correct. I have been treasuring them up ever since the death of my father in 1830. My mother died in Sept. 1844, and the communications of C.P.M. Foote in the watchman of the South, were the subject of many conversations between her and myself. Foote's Sketches are greatly marred by erronious dates, and therefore unsafe as authority. For instance the controversy about the genuineness of the hecklenburg Declaration, brught about by the sneers of Wm. Jefferson, is dated 1830 (after the death

Page 3

of Dm Heanter instead of 1820. It is my design to present in a future paper, the testimony and the arguments in proof of the genuinness of that Document, and particularly the Resolves of the 20th instead of the 30th. of May, in oppositionto the views of Peter Force. I could give many facts of a private nature, that would throw light on the course of M. Archibald: but as there are descendants of his living it would not be prudent to publish them There was a Dm. Strain , a son of the Rev. John Strain of Tenn. when the good people of Mecklenburg educated for the ministry, hoping to make out of him a man like his father. My father attended the same Academy with him taught by Rev. Robert Finley on Mc. Alpin 's Creek some distance east of Charlotte. This Strain studied medcine and boarded in the house of Mrs. Archibald, after he came into

Page 4

practice. The marriage of Mrs. Archibald was uncongenial. His wife married him through the persuasion of friends, and not learning my love for him, a manifest estrangement took place after Dm. Strain went to live in the family. And so strong was the belief in the community of an improper intimacy between him and Mrs. A. that three men went to his room early one morning to tar & feather him, but released him on his promising to leave the place. Instead of fulfilling the promise however, he brought an action against them and recovered heavy damages. I have heard more than of the old people tell how Mr. A. would go to the houses of his neighbors, and talk over his infelicities to his intimate friends. Mental derangement in peculiar form was perhaps the result. This is subrosa. Of old Mrs. Caldwell it was said, that he was so stingy that when he went inot the woods to feed his hogs, if he found one to feeble to walk he would give it an ear. one that was able to go, he would just show it an ear. He died with a bag of silver under his head and his son Charley then studying in Salisbury did not come to see him until after his death.

Page 5

My father was in Gen. Davidson 's command, when he fell at Cowan 's Ford, and stood sentinal at the door of his marquee, only a short time previously. He went on man Dickens and joined the army of Greene, but was discharged at the same time with Graham 's company, before the battle. I have several anecdotes from him and some other old men, that have never been published. Francis Bradley was the uncle of my mother, by marriage. His wife was Abby Camron , the sister of John and James Camron: the latter was the grandfather of the late Dn. Franklin Camron of Jackson Mo. John Camron, my grandfather, lived near neighbor to Capt. Bradley; and when the latter was killed both families gathered immediately to the spot. When the foraging party of red coats went to Mc Intire 's, two of them went to my grand father 's took a cord out of a bed, cut it in two, and

Page 6

tied up the cords full of fodder, and started off with their plunder on their horses. When the firing commenced at Mc. Intyre 's, they strewed the fodder in the road, and rode off at full speed. I Remain Yours Very Truly James A. Wallace.

