Page 1

Knoxville Tenn. Sept. 16th /63 Sister Sade I at last have at last have got time to let you know of my whereabouts and how I am getting along down here in tenn. we got here to Knox. on the 4th of this month we only stayed here over night untill we was ordered to Cumberland Gap , a distance of 60 miles. we marched it in two days & a half, we got there about 10 Oclock, on the 9th. Major General Burnside then gave the Rebs untill 3 Oclock P.M. to Surrender at which time they did unconditionally. they marched down out of the gap Something of over two thousand of them and Stacked arms before the 104th Ohio Regt Regiment

Page 2

we had them to guard that night and part of the next day then the 129th Ohio V.I. Started with them to Camp chase and we Started back to Knox we would no doubt have had a hard fight there had they not Surrendered for it is a hard place to take. they have had that place ever Since the war broke out, we got over two thousand prisoners about that many Stand of arms, 80 head of mules Several hundred pounds of pork Six peices of Artillery and diferent other things to tedious to mention then while we was doing that the 100th Ohio Started down in to Va. and got in to a fight there with about 6 times there number and got whiped and two or three hundred prisoners taken

Page 3

Steve got back to the Regt. on the 10th of this month though before he got here he lost all the letters that was Sent to the Boys by different ones he Said there was two for me when you write let me know if they were both from home or not. I V John A. McCammon are both now in town on provost guard and likely will remain here Same time we are both well and hearty and so is the rest of the boys at Camp which is about half a mile from town I Suppose you have heard of William Conals Death before this will reach you he died with the consumtion Knoxville is as large a Town as Lexington it Situated on the Tenn River

Page 4

Well, Sade I guess I have given you about all the news I have to tell you this time. I wrote you a letter while I was in Scot County Tenn and have never had an ans to it yet when you write let me know if you received it or not Address Co. C. 104th O. V. I. In care Capt. H. Sturgeon Knoxville Tenn. dont neglect writing to me I will write to you every oportuny you must not be uneasy if you do not get letters from me for I will write as often as I can. Yours, with due Respect A. J. Moon P.S. To Sade, write soon.

