Page 1

Mrs. J.G.M. Ramsey Knoxville, E. Tenn.

Page 2

Athens Tenn. Apr. 14, 1884. Dear Aunt Peggie:- I know your heart is bleeding and crushed today under the great affliction that you have borne the loss of your life companion of more than sixty years; and I write you this note to assure you of my armest and tenderest sympathy with you in this hour of bereavement. Of course I was not suprised to hear of the death of the Dr. because I had frequently heard lately of his rapid decline. But death always comes into our homes as a terrible blow to our hearts. I wanted to be with you yesterday; but my engagements here were such that it seemed out of my power to change them. While this stroke of providence is a heavy one indeed, it is a matter of profound gratitude that you have such rich assurances, that the community's love, the family's loss, and the country's loss, is your husband's gain. A long life of active influence of earnest faith, and consecrated service to the master has only ended in the rich rewards that "God the righteous Judge has in reserve for those that love his

Page 3

appearing." I know of no man of whom it may be more fitty said than of your husband, that "he has fought the fight, he has kept the faith, he has finished his course, hence-forth is laid up for him the crown of righteousness," - And after all the frosses and trials of a long eventful life, the crown is only the brighter & richer. My prayer is that God in his mercy may abundantly sustain and comfort your heart in the years that are yet left to you, and that you may look with the eye of faith to the meeting that awaits you on the other shore, where it is said of its inhabitants that "they shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more, neither shall the sun light on them nor any heat, for the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them and shall lead them into living fountains of waters; and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes." With deepest sympathy and kindest regards to Mc & Cousin Lizzie I am Yours Very Truly, E.A. Ramsey

