[Front Cover]MS-874Sunday Jan. 1st 18This morning I went to sunday school and church, they were both pretty well
                    filled, there was church again this evening, I went. I am now writing my
                    Jour-nal in a book that Mr. T. H Heald gave me, he is a clerk at Fath-ers
                    Drugstore, and I entend to keep it up for the year 1865.This A. M. Father had to go out to Mr. A. Mc Campbells, he was gone till about
                    two o clock.To day at Sunday school Embry Hoss promised me his photograph , he was a member
                    of Mr. Whites class, We now have a new teacher his name is Mr. Gard-ner, but I
                    don't like him a much as I did Mr. White, although he expleans it to us
                    more than Mr. White did.To day has been the coldest day we have had this winter, our Thermometer said 4
                    degrees below zero, others said 2 degrees above. ,P.S. Four degrees above and
                    not 4 belowMonday Jan. 2 1865It has been a very cold day. This morning I asked Father if he wood not let me go
                    up on the pond, he said yes, and I tell you did not I have fun, I could have
                    stayed all day. This P. M. I went to take a music lesson, I took a page in the
                    instruction, as I was going to take my lesson, I seen one of the Capt. old
                    orderlies he said that he thought my pony was down to the stable, and if he was
                    not mistaken he would bring it up, but it did not come.Tuesday Jan. 3, 1865It has been a rainy gloomy day. To day Father has been very busy. I have not been
                    very well to day, but did not like to take any medicine , as it would turn me
                    up-side-down.We could not iron the clothes to day, as they froze lastnight.Father has gone over to Col. Baxters, and to the drug-store, and as soon as he
                    gets back he has to go out to Mr. Mc Campbells. As I have not been out much to
                    day, I donot know much to say in my Journal, so I will have to stop for to
                    day.Wednesday Jan. 4thTo day has been colder than yesterday. This A. M. I took the horse up to J.
                    Dogans to have him shodd, I waited for him. Today Father got a dispatch from
                    Capt. Devro, Qatharin is come
                    with him, and will be here by tomorrow, @ aint I glad, I am so glad that I donot
                    know what to do, but I expect all I can do is wait.This P. M. Jim - Maynard came to see me, we had a nice time play-ing snow ball,
                    except when our hands froze. This evening Molly got through making the dress
                    that she got Christmas.Thursday Jan. 5th 185It has been a very pleasant day. Yesterday Father got a dispatch from Capt.
                    Devereux, Catharine will be here tonight, wont I be glad, I told Father he would
                    jump sky high when she came, and so would I, and he asked me which would jump
                    the highest, I told him that he would, because he had the longest legs. This
                    evening I went after milk, and as I was comming home, I seen Father just going
                    down to the rail road I was going too, but I did not get home in time, so I did
                    not get to see how high Father jumped. I was so glad that she came, that I could
                    not help bussing her, as the
                    people say.Friday Jan. 6It has been an unpleasant day for those who had to be out of doors, but it was a
                    very pleas-ant day for me, because I have been in the house most all day with
                    Catharine, she brought me a hat, a tooth brush, and finger nail brush, a knife,
                    a nice slate, realy they are two, but are fastened to gether by hing-es, so it
                    looks a little like a blank book, and next a box of slate pencil, there are 100
                    in it, and a pair of mit-tens, a box of pens, a 100 of them, they are the best
                    stick pen I ever wrote with, they are called Congress pens, some cloth to make a
                    pair of pants.And a little shirt pin ornimented
                    with mothers hair.As my Journal is gettinglong, and I am getting sleepy, that I with tell you the rest tomorrow.Saturday Jan. 7And now I will tell you what Father got, he got a watch chain made of Mothers
                    hair, it is the nicest thing I ever saw.Molly got a pair of shoes, a laced collar, and a pair of mittens.Maire got a pair of shoes and a pair of garters. To day I had to go up to Mrs.
                    Smiths, after a can of Catharine's. Mr. Haws once came after one, and took
                    the wrong one. This evening I took the horse to water. I had a splendid ride. I
                    went up to Mrs. Coopers, after the milk, Agnes is such a nice girl.Catharine sent Emma a bvest fise
                    of Mothers hair. Yesterday Mrs. Schlaeffer came to seeCatharine she stayed a good while, Charles came with her in the carryall. This P.
                    M. Cath-arine got through making me a nice flannel shirt, just now Catharine
                    says that she is making two, they are as warm as a stove.Today Catharine made me gath-er up all of my books that I have left scatered
                    about since she has beengone.Sunday Jan. 8thIt has been a very pleasant day, but cold. This morning Cath-arine and I went to
                    church, it was filled pretty well, I had to give up my seat to a woman, I did
                    not like it much eith-er, but I thought I had to as Mr. Shepard told me to.This P. M. there was churchagain, I or Catharine did not go. This A. M. and this P. M. I took the horse to
                    water.Mrs. Slaeffer came to see Catharine, John and Charley brought her in the carry
                    all, they stayed a good while. Mrs. S. was at church. This evening I went up to
                    Mrs. Coopers after the milk, I took a pitcher up there, (one that Catharine
                    brought) for Agnes to put the milk in and I will go after it after supper.Mon day Jan. 9th.Last night, a good while after supper, Father said that he was going to take a
                    walk, then I went up starse to tell Catharine a-bouty it, there she was,
                    dressing up to go too, and said that we all were going, then I asked Father
                    where were we going?and he said down to Mr. Humes, and then I asked him what we were going to do down
                    there and he said that we were en-vited down there, the first thing I knew, all
                    of Mr. Hume's fami-ly sobed
                    up, and Mr. Humes took up there prayer book, and then I thought Catharine was
                    going to be confermed, but when I seen Father give her a ring, and then I knew
                    she was M to be my Mother.This evening I went to take a music lesson, Mrs. Wicks said that I knew my lesson
                    well. I do not know why because I did not practis a bit Friday.Tuesday Jan. 10th/65Last night it rained all night very heard, and it has not been a pleasant day to
                    day, because it is very muddy, and is now raining some, it has been try-ing to
                    do it most all day.Ever since Catharine got married, she has been sleeping down in the Nursery with
                    Father, and have slept up stairs. I like the bed up stairs so much better than
                    the one down stair in Father room. Monday I began my lessons, I could not recite
                    any because Catharine was so busy, I like it so much.To day Father bought some butter and some eggs for Cath-arine to make some cake
                    with. Yesterday Father sold a stove to a soldier.Wednesday. Jan 11th.It has been a very cold day. To day Father went ten miles in the country, he just
                    now came back. To day I wrote a letter to Emma, I told her about Father being
                    married, and about what Mother brought me from Cincinnati, I am writing with one
                    of the steel pens that she brought now, I like it very much.This evening Mrs. Humes came over here to see Catharine, she gave her some of her
                    wedding cake, and some wine, Mrs. H. corrected Catharine, instead of saying
                    pronounciation, pronunci-ation. I don't think it is right eitherThursday Jan. 12th/65It has been a very cold day. Today I went over to the taler shop, and got them to
                    cut me a pair of pantz out of some cloth that Cath-arine brought from the
                    North.To day Mrs. Flemming and Sue Boyd came to see Catharine.To day I did not get through my lessons till late. I had to write German. I donot
                    know half as much as I did when Mother left. I like the slate very much that she
                    brought me.I wish the pond would freeze over hard for I want to try my skates so bad that I
                    do not know what to do, but I expect that all I can do is to wait.This evening I went up to Mrs. Coopers after milk.Friday Jan. 13thIt has been a pleasant but rather cold day. Yesterday I went up to Mrs. Coopers
                    after milk.This morning Mr. Humes came to see Mother, and after that Mrs. Lock and her
                    little girl Ella came, and after that Mrs. Sanford, and her sisterMiss Sue. I
                    had to play for them. Father went is the country, and I have not seen his face
                    since this morning.Yesterday Mr. and Mrs. G. Smith came to see Father and Mother, they said that
                    Charley was taller than his mother is.Today Catharine began to make my new pantze, and next Sunday I will strut up and
                    down the streets is my new clothes.Saturday Jan. 14th/65This morning Mrs. Hoxey came to see Mother, and after that this evening Mrs.
                    Maynard and Mrs. Capt Whitman came to see her, they stayed a good while.This evening Mrs. Schenck came to see Marie and Catharine.This P. M. Mr. Bell came to bring us a load of wood, it is all hickorry. Today I
                    made me a box to clean my shoes on.This evening Catharine said that my ears were dirty, she said that, that would
                    not do, it looked too much like Cincinnati.We do not sit much in the Nursery now, but in the back parlar, and are burning
                    coal in the grate.Sunday Jan 15thIt has been a pleasant Sunday This morning Catharine and I went to church, I went
                    to Sun-day school, I like the teacher we have now very much. This P. M. there
                    was church again, I went but Mother did not.This A. M. I took the horse to water, and as soon as I get through my Journal I
                    am going again. Yesterday night Mr. Heald came to see Father and Mother. This P.
                    M. Mrs. Wohl-wend came to see Mother, Fa-vaxined the baby. This P. M. Molly went
                    down to see Mrs. Locks black girl. After a while I am going after the milk.Monday Jan. 16th 1865It has been a pleasant day. Today Molly has been washing the clothes. To day I
                    went to take a music lesson, I took part of a duet with Mrs. Wicks, and part of
                    a march, they are both very pretty, especially the march.To day for a wonder nobody came to see Catharine, I ex-pect that this calling
                    business is quit, and Catharine say's that if it has she is glad. as soon
                    as I get through my Journal I am going to water the horse.To day Father has been pretty busy. Father told us to day that Mr. Jackson's
                    family got home Friday.Tuesday Jan.It has been a pleasant but rather cold day. To day Miss Hatty Smily came to see
                    Mother, she did not stay very long. Today Marie and Molly have been iron-ing.
                    This A. M. Mr. H eald sent me a large orange, I am going save the pealings for
                    cooking. Fridy as I said Mr. Jackson's family returned. Emma sent me
                    picture of a Dear that she drew, if I was only rich enough I would have it
                    framed in goldThis evening Catharine and Father have gone out to Mr. Jacksons on horse back,
                    they have not returned yet.Wednes day Jan. 18It has been a very pleas ant day To day I did not get trough my lessons till
                    late. Yesterday Father and Catharine did not get home till pretty late, I had
                    gone after the milk. To day Father has been down to the Drugstore most all day,
                    he did not even come home to his dinner. To day no bod-y has been here to see
                    Mother, it is the hardest thing in the world for me to call Catharine Mother,
                    but I am going to try it. This P. M. I went down to the Drugstore to get some
                    oil but it was not emptied, and
                    they were so busy that they could not empty it then.Thursday Jan. 19thIt has been a rather cold day. I went to take a music lesson and after I came
                    back I went down to the Drugstore to get some oil. I was only going to get a
                    little, but Mr. Heald said that he would send Wily up with the big can. To day
                    Catharine has not had any callers. This P. M. Charley Krutch came to see me, I
                    lent him a book, the one I got Christmas. I went to the post office for Mother.
                    This A. M. I took the horse to water. I had a splen-did ride. I did not water
                    him this evening because Father did.This evening I went up at Mrs. Coopers after milk.Friday Jan. 20th/65It has been a pleasant spring like day. This morning I took the horse to water.
                    Catharine has had no callers a-gain to day, I mean to say not any strainger, for
                    this P. M. Mrs. Eagster came to see Catharine. To day I did not get through my
                    lessons till late.Yesterday evening as the oil came we could burn the lamp in-stead of those mean
                    candels, it gives a great deal better light. Father has been over Mr. Dauses a
                    good part of the day, Father says that he expects that he will die, his Wife
                    just died not long ago.Marie has been making some crackers, they are the best things out.Saturday evening Jan. 21Last night it rained, and was pret-ty mudy to day, but it has been a pleasant day
                    otherwise. I took the horse to water the horser, I it was mudy and I could not
                    go fast. Yesterday and to day Catharine and Molly have been clean-ing up and
                    down.Today I did not get through what I had to do till late. This evening I cut enough
                    wood to last all of the week.Just as soon as I wash my self, and get through my journal I am going after the
                    milk. Father when he came home This P. M. he brought, a nice new water
                    bucket.Sunday Jan. 22This morning Mother and I went to church, I went to sunday school, we have got
                    the books that, Mr. White sent us, they are splendid ones, the one I got, was
                    named dress the Love of Dress, This P. M. there was church again, Mother,
                    Father, and I went.Wall, what do you think This morning Father, and Mother did not get up till half
                    past seven and when Marie told me to tell them to come to breakfast, I told them
                    to come to dinner.Yesterday I made some stuf for the cold, I donot know wheth-er it is going to do
                    me any good or not, it did Molly.Monday P. S. Jan. 23To day I did not get through my lessons till late. This A. M. I did not water the
                    horse, as Father had togo in the country, and he watered him then. This morning Marie and Molly have
                    been washing the clothes, they could not get dry, because it snowed, they are
                    go-ing to try to hang them out to-morrow, if it does not snow.Today I took a music lesson, I took the rest of that March, and the rest of the
                    Duet I was taking. This P. M. I went up to Mrs. Cooper's after the
                    milk.Tuesday Jan. 24It has been a very cold day. Yesterday day Mr. Wohlnend was here he said that he
                    would come to day and saw the the wood but he did not come, I expect he will
                    come tomorrow, if he don't I am going to give him a snow balling the next
                    time thereis any snow. To day Father has been down to the Drugstore a good part of the day,
                    Today when they hanged out the clothes, they had not been there ten minutes
                    before they froze.This evening I went up to Mrs. Coopers after the milk.This P. M. Mrs. Wohlnend came to see Mother, just as I got half through this last
                    sentence, Molly hopped up and cried fire, then I open-ed the door, and and seen
                    a blaze , it was in the direction of the Drugstore I ran down to see, but it was
                    not, they were getting the fire engine out and when Father came home he said
                    that it was Mr. Tempels house, but only a chimney, so that the cry of fire did
                    not do any good.Wednesday Jan.23It has been a very cold day.To day Father has had not been well most all day, with the head ache. To day Mr.
                    Wohl-wend came and cut up the wood I am so glad, for now we have got chunks to
                    burn. This morning I took the horse to water, I had a splendid ride, the horse
                    just cut up, and it is fun , when he does not cut up too much. This evening I
                    had to go down to the Drugstore twice, and when I came home the last time I had
                    to got to the postoffice, to take a letter.This evening I went up to Mrs. Coopers on the horse, as I had to water him, I had
                    a good ride. Father did not come out to tea this evening.O, I forgot to tell you about the seranaders last night, they came to seranade
                    Father and Mother. I was in bed when they came but then I could hear it very
                    plain, they played three or four peices on the front porch, and then Father
                    asked them in, andMother gave them some wine and cake, Mr. Heald was with them, but he did not come
                    with an instrament.Thursday Jan. 24It has been a very cold day, it like to have bit my nose off. To day I did not
                    get through my lessons at all.This morning when I clean-ed the horse , he just cut up shines, I did not have to
                    water him because Father had to go away with him , and it was a good thing he
                    did, for if I had rode him I, am most sure that I wood have got thrown off. I
                    took a music lesson, I took some in my Duet.Today Father has been much better, than he was yesterday, for yesterday a-bout
                    this time, he was vomiting.This evening Mr. Lruily came to
                    see Father, about Miss Hatty.To day Catharine on her knees has been covering the parlor chairs, all day.Friday Jan. 25thIt has been a very cold day. I did not get through my lessons till late, I am
                    going to try to get through what I have to do in good time, tomorrow I donot
                    have to say lessons, but a good many other things , I am going to see if I
                    cannot get through once in my life, for there is just the best ice on the pond
                    ever will be.Today Molly and Marie have been shelling corn. This evening Mrs. Hair came to see
                    Mother, she staied a good while.This evening I went up to Mrs. Coopers after the milk, I took the horse as I had
                    to water him.Sunday Mrs. Gredig came to see Marie, Marg came too, she gave Mary two of our
                    eats.Saturday Jan. 26thIt has been a very cold day. Today Father has been down to the Drugstore most all
                    day. This AM. Mrs. Wicks came to see Mother, she stay-ed a good while. To day
                    Father got Harry to bring his wagon here, and get some wheat, to take to the
                    mill to be ground, it came just a moment ago. I have not seen the flour yet, but
                    I expect it is fine flour, for it was sple-did wheat. Yesterday Emil Sharan came
                    here after my skates, I lone them to him till to day, but he has not brought
                    them back yet.This morning Mrs. Baewziger came to see Mother and this evening Mother has gone
                    up to Mrs. Eugsters, expecting to see Mrs. B.Sunday Jan. 29th 1865This morning Mother and I went to church, it was crowded, and just before that I
                    went to sunday school, they have got some new books, story and lesson books, I
                    have got one of each, my lesson book is of Mathew: This evening there was church
                    again, Mother and myself did not go, but Father did. This evening if Father will
                    let me have the horse, I want to go out to the Cemitery, well, just now F.eamu
                    in the Dining room I asked him, if I could, he said that I could have the horse,
                    but I cannot get out there very well, I donot know why. To day while at church a
                    man came in walked in church and enquired for all of the Drs. connected with the
                    army, and after church, Father brought us, word that the train had ran off, of
                    the track, and everal were kild, and others wounded , it oc-cared down in the
                    neighborhood of Loudon.Monday Jan. 30It has been a very pleasant day. Father has been down to the Drug-store a good
                    part of the day.Yesterday I had a splendid ride, I went out as far as Reese's creek, I never
                    saw more dead horses in my life, at one time, there were six pretty close
                    to-gather, and then there were others scattered about.Mrs. Jackson and Miss Josie came to see Mother, it is the first time that I have
                    seen Miss Josie since she came from New Jersey.Marie and Molly have been washing. This morning I did not get up till late, and
                    tomorrow morning Catharine is going to get up, and star us up, and I am going to
                    try to beat her too,This evening I went up to Mrs. Cooper's after the milk.Tuesday Jan. 31It has been a pleas ant spring like day. This A. M. Mrs. Eckle came to see
                    Mother, she stayed a good while.Molly and Marie have been iron the clothes. Father has been very busy all day, and I am fraid he will have to go again to
                    night.Yesterday Mr. Richardson wrote us a letter, I donot know when he wrote the
                    letter, but we got it yesterday. To day Mr. Smith, the man that used to guard
                    our stable, came here to see us.Wednesday Feb. 1It has been a very pleasant day, quite like spring, I think that it will rain
                    tonight or tomorrow.To day Father has been very busy. This morning I had to go down to Father's
                    store to take a letter for Moth-er to Mr. Heald. To day Mr. Wohl-nend came to
                    cut up our wood, and just this evening as he was cut-ting it up, Mr. Hill
                    brought us another load. This P. M. Father has been writ-ing a few letters
                    North.Yesterday when Mr. Smith came, he did not see me, and today he came back on
                    purpose, he said that I had grown a great deal since he last saw me, and I told
                    him that he looked a great deal better, since I last saw him.Yesterday Mr. Par-ker brought M. a bottle of boiled sider, and to day when he
                    came to town she gave him some cake, but he did notknow it, as she put it in his satchel.Thursday Feb 2It has been a very warm spring like day. To day Mrs. Chennoworth came to see
                    Father, she brought us some eggs. To day Johanna came to see Catharine, she
                    staied a good while, and a little after she came I went and took a music lesson,
                    I took some more of my Duet, it is very pretty.To day a man brought Father a turkey, and this evening Marie has been fixing a
                    place to put it.Yesterday and to day Fath-er has not been well a bit.This evening Mr. Sanford and Mrs. Heald will be here, Catherine has fixed the
                    room, and made a fire, Mr. and Mrs. H. are going to board here, if I will like
                    Mrs. H. as well as I do her husband, I will do pretty well.Friday Feb. 3.Last night it rained pretty hard, and to day it rained some too.Yesterday Mrs. Heald came, she occupies the rooms that the Capt. used to have,
                    and as Mr. Heald is going to sleep here now, I am going over to Mr. Wohlwends,
                    to see if he cannot go over there nights and stay. Father thinks that it is not
                    safe to leave the store a-lone. Yesterday when I went up to Mrs. Coopers after
                    the milk, I wanted to get a quart, but she said that I could not, as one of the
                    cows are sick.Father has been to the Drugstore a good part of the day. Mr. Bart brought us some
                    nice honey.Mrs. Schenck is sick Father went over to see her, Herman has been over here
                    twice, about her.I got through my lessons a little sooner than I did yesterday.Saturday Feb. 4It has been a very pleasant day, except muddy. This morning I got through my work
                    in very good time. I had to go to market, and it was very muddy up that way.I got a letter from Emma today she sent me the picture, of Cusin Laura, I tell
                    you she is pretty. I was as pretty as she is, I would not want to be any
                    prettyer, Emma said that their was a little boy that got drownd, he went on the
                    pond and it was not strong enough.This evening Catharine made some molases candy, and some pop-corn balls, I poped
                    the corn and Catharine made the balls. Mrs. Heald is helping pull the candy.Sunday Feb. 5.This morning Catharine and I went to church, just before that I went to sunday
                    school, tomorrow there is going to be a Sunday-school Fes-tival at three o clock
                    in the P. M. and if I get through my lessons in good time. Yesterday about three
                    or half past three, Father went out in the country, and he did not get back till
                    late in the fore noon.This evening Mrs. Wohlwend came to see Mother, she stayed a good while, and
                    before she left, I went to church, it was not very full, Mr. Humes did not
                    preach, Mother did not go, but Father did.It has been a pretty cool day. This evening Mr. Sanford came to see Father, he is
                    going to start a-gain for Cincinnati tomorrow, and Mother is now getting him
                    some candy.Monday Feb. 6th/65It has been a cold day. To day Father has been very busy at the Drug-store, Mr.
                    Stephenson was drunk, before Mr. Sanford got away, and Father is just now going
                    in the country to be gone all night.This morning Mrs. Eckle came to see Mrs. Heald, and about noon Mrs. Stephenson,
                    and Miss Brooks came to see Mrs. Heald and Mother, and this evening Mrs. Sanford
                    came. To day I went to take a music lesson, I took the laast of my duet, it is
                    very pretty.Molly and Marie have been washing the clothes. Yesterday evening I said that the
                    Festival was going to be to day, but it is going to be on the 16th of this
                    month.Father and Mother have got an invitation to go out to Mr. Jackson's Thursday
                    night.Tuesday Feb. 7th/65Yesterday I had to take some money up to Mrs. Wicks, and Mother said that I might
                    stay a little while with the girls, I wore my great coat, we played in a large
                    yard just across the street, after we had played a while I pulled my coat off,
                    and when I got my milk I started for home, and when I got as far as the gate, I
                    remembered that I had left it there, I brought the milk to the kitchen, and then
                    went after it, when I got up there it was gone, I am very sorry, but I hope it
                    will teach me a lesson to be more care-ful.Last night it snowed pretty hard, and to day it snowed a little but is now
                    melting away.Father did not get home till late this morning. To day Col. Reeves came here and
                    wanted a room, I think Father is going to let him have it.Wednesday Feb. 8.It snowed a little to day, and it was pretty cool. Father was not down to the
                    Drugstore any this morning, but this P. M. he has, as Mr. Stephenson has been
                    drunk. To day a negro boy brought Col. Reave's things, so I suppose he is
                    comming to occupy his room this evening.Yesterday I got through my lessons in good time, but to day I did not get through
                    as early. I know I will get through tomorrow , because I have studied my lessons
                    good, and where there is a will, there is a way.To day a man brought Col. Reeves a load of wood, and a black man carried some up
                    to his room, and Catharine and Molly have got through fixing the room. A moment
                    ago it began to snow and is snowing still.Thursday Feb 9th.Yesterday when I carried my wood, I drawed it on my sled, as there is a plenty
                    snow. I can carry six large chunks on it, three times as much I can carry at one
                    time, with my armes, the snow is so frozen that I can stand on it, and will not
                    sink down. Today I got through my les-sons in pretty good time.I went to take a music lesson, Mrs. Wicks was not readdy for me so I went up to
                    Mrs. Santford , and told her that Mr. Sanford was in Jacksboro, as Father told
                    me to.This morning I took the horse to water. Yesterday Col. Reeves came to occupy his
                    room. It snowed some to day but not of any consequence.Friday Feb. 10.To day I did not get through my lessons till late. To day Mrs. Sanfordcame to see Mrs. Heald , they have just gone to take a walk, I expect they will
                    find it pretty muddy as the snow is melting away. I am sorry be-cause I cannot
                    pull my wood any more.Father has been down to the drug-store a good deal today. This morning I did not
                    take the horse to water, but wa-tered him here at the house.This morning I went to market, I got two stakes and a roast.Every P. M. a black boy comes and cuts wood for Col. Reeve.Saturday Feb. 11It has been a very pleasant day. This morning I took the horse to water I had a
                    splendid time.Yesterday evening while we were eating supper, Marie came in and said that Molly
                    was missing, andher trunk was gone, so Molly has ran off, I am glad that she is gone, but Mo-ther
                    will have to be out in the kitch-in more, and I don't like that much.To day Mr. Eugster brought Cath-arine's clock home , I am so glad, because I
                    will not have to have the watek to practice by. This evening a black boy came
                    and cut the Col's. wood, we had fun throwing snow balls.This evening a man brought Father a load of wood.Sunday Feb. 12It has been a pleasant sunday. This morning Catharine and I went to church it was
                    crowded, I sat with Mr. and Mrs. Hoxey, and I liked to have froze. This evening
                    there was church again Father and I went but Catharine did not, there were very
                    few people.As Molly is gone Marie is busynearly all of the time. Yesterday even-ing a negro man brought 55 dolars up here,
                    and said that Molly had given it to Ann. and told her that it waas only six
                    dollars as Mo-ly could not count, they gave it to gilbert and told him to go and
                    buy M. a dress, and on his way he thought that he would want the money, and as
                    he found that it was 55 dollars brought it right up here, as he thought that
                    Molly had stolen it, and sure enoughit was the money that had been missing for
                    several days.Monday Feb. 13.It has been a very pleasant day. Yesterday evening as I was go-ing after the the
                    milk, I met Louisa, and her head bleeding aw-fully, she could hardly walk. I
                    asked her what was the matter, shesaid that Sam. Harris had hit her on the head with a rock, and it had cut a large
                    gash. I told her that I thought that she had better go right home, when she got
                    there they sent for Fa-ther, Ella and Laura ran just as fast as they could, she
                    had not been there long, before, two guards came after her to go down to the
                    provomarshal with them, but Mrs. Wicks told them that she was not able to go,
                    and to day when I went to take a music lesson, she said that the offic-er of the
                    day told her, that they were going to make him work on the fortifications 40
                    days.Tuesday Feb. 14thTo day it rained some, and hailed a little. To day Father has been down to the
                    Drugstore a good deal to day.Yesterday when I went up to Mrs. Cooper's after the milk, Mrs. Cooper called
                    me in to her roomand gave me some candy, and said that Mr. Cooper's new goods had come.I did not get through my lessons till late. Yesterday Mrs. Schlarffer sent
                    Catharine some cake, and sent to her nephew some candy, but as I donot call
                    Catharine mother, she is not going to give it to me.I expect that I will have to water the horse. Tues a man brought Father a load of
                    wood, and the other day the same man brought broke down the gate. This evening
                    the washer women came after Mrs. Healds clothes.Wednesday Feb. 15Last night it rained pretty hard, and to day it has been very muddy. This morning
                    I took the horse to water. Yesterday Father got a letter from Emma. To day
                    Catharinehas been fixing a basket full of eating things for the Festival, it is going to
                    be tomorrow, I want Father and Catharine to go, but I donot beleive they
                    will.To day Father has been very busy Catharine is making her the nicest kind of a
                    pair of slippers, she is going to get Mr. Wolf to sole them.I did not get through my lessons till late. Yesterday evening at sup-per, we had
                    some of the cake that Mrs. Schlaflfer sent Catharine , it was hifiluten.Thursday Feb. 16thIt has been a pleasant day. This morning I took a basket full of eating things
                    over to the Baptist church for thusg evening. and afterI came home I wwent over to Mrs. Schencks
                    with some chicken, and when I came home from there , I dressed myself and went
                    over tothe church it lasted till about half after two, we had a splendid time, the
                    church was very full, we sang and ate most all of the time. I ate four biskets ,
                    five dough-nuts and two slices of cake, and a handfull of candy and rainens, and I fell as if I could not
                    eat any more for two years, well, I forgot to say I drank a bowl full of
                    coffee.Father has got the head ache, and is trying to sleep now.This morning I went after Fathers bit, and to market.Friday Feb. 17.To day it rained very hard. Father is a good deal better to day, but is not quite
                    well yet. I hope that he will be well by tomorrow.I did not get through my lessons till late, but am going to try todo better tomorrow. To day I took a music lesson, as I was going up there I saw
                    Mr. Haterburg standing in the door of his store, I asked him if he has any of
                    Mr. Lincoln's pictures, he said no, that he did not have any for sale, but
                    there was one left and he would give it to me. I took the horse to water
                    yesterday and I would have had a splendid ride if it had not been so muddy.To day Catharine finished sowing her slippers I think.Saturday 18. th/65It has been a very pleasant spring like day. This morning Mrs. May-nard and
                    another lady came to see Mr. Heald. Today a man brought Col. Reeve a load of
                    wood, and three lougs of pine wood. This evening I have been raking up the
                    leaves in the back yard, I am going to burn them upand I hope they will all be burned up by next Saturday.This P. M. I went down to the store for Mrs. Heald.This evening Mrs. Eugster came to see Mother, she is here yet.Just as soon as I get through my journal I am going to water the horse, and after
                    I come back I am going to wash all over as it is so very warm I hope that Mother
                    will let me wash in cold water.Sunday Feb. 19.It has been a very pleasant day. This morning Catharine and I went to church, it
                    was crowd-ed, just before church, I went to sunday school. This P. M there was
                    church again. Mother did not go but I did, it was pretty full but not near as
                    full as it was thismorning. To day Mr. and Mrs. Heald went to church at the second presbyterian
                    church. At church I sat with Jennie Mc Farlen, and I never saw such a figiter in
                    all my life. Mother says that I figit, but I hope to good-ness that I donot
                    figit as much as she does.Monday. Feb. 20It has been a very pleasant day. To day Mother got through washing the clothes ,
                    and the porch by dinner time, a little earlier than Molly used to.To day Father has been down to the drugstore all day, as Mr. Stephenson has been
                    out of fix. Father did not have time, even, to eat his dinner with the other
                    folks.To day I went to take a music lesson, I have taken a part of Home, sweet home, it
                    is very pretty indeed.This evening a man broughtFather a load of saw-dust., This A. M. I took the horse to water, I had a
                    splendid ride.I did not get through my lessons till late. This P. M. a boy brought round here a
                    basket full of inverta-tions, there was not one for us, but one for Mrs.
                    Heald.Tuesday Feb. 21.It has been a very pleasant spring like day. To day I did not get through my
                    lessons till late, I am going to try to do better to-morrow. To day Mrs. M. F.
                    Smith came to see Mother, she stayed a good while. Last night after I had gone
                    to bed the band played a long time over in the neighborhood of Col.
                    Gibson's house, it is playing now on the front porch of the Leman house. I
                    think that it is the bestband that has ever been in Knoxville.Father has been down to the Drugstore most all day, as Ben Steaphanson is drunk,
                    if I was Father I would turn him out, as he drinks so much. To day Mother has
                    been ironing the clothes.Wednesday Feb 22.It has been a very pleasant day, Today they have been firing off cannon, and
                    having dress parades, they had two dress parades this morning, they done it
                    because the Fedrals have taken Charlston, and Catharine let me of my lessons,
                    and, I went over to Jimmie Maynards house, and just now Jimmie Maynard, and Jo.
                    and Willie Mabry came to see me.This morning I took Fathers horse over to the shop and got him shod. A little
                    while ago thenegro band came past here playing.This evening I went down to the post office to take a letter for Mother. Father
                    has been down to the Drugstore most all day.This morning I went up to Mrs. Sanford's with Mrs. Heald and when I came
                    back I had to go down to Mr. Hoxeys for FatherThursday Feb. 23.It has been a dark rainy day. To I got through my lessons in pretty good time,
                    but I am going to try to get through sooner tomorrow.Yesterday Johanna came to see Mother; To day I went to take a music lesson, I
                    took four lines of the variations of Home, sweeth home: Father has been down to
                    the Drugstore a good deal to-day. The other day Mr. Mc Camp-bell brought us some sweet potatoes, I tell you they are good, they are worth
                    smaking your jaws, at that's whats the matter. I will miss my over coat
                    going up after the milk this P. M. will not I.Friday Feb. 24It has not rained any to day but has been rather dark. This morning Mr. Wohlwend
                    came and cleaned out Father's stable. This morning I took the horse to
                    water , I had a splendid ride.Yesterday evening when Father came home he saw a legrt over at the church , he thought somebody had came
                    over here, and got the key's , and had gone over to play on the organ, and
                    then he did not think any thing more about it, so he sat down, and in a few
                    moments, he got up and looked to see if the keys were in their usual placeand finding that they were, he said that he was afraid that the church was on
                    fire, then he put on his boots and Mother got the lantern, and Father
                    toublequicked it over, and unlocking the church he saw a gentle-man fixing the
                        libra-ry, and he said that
                    he saw the doors open and he thought that he would come in and fix the
                    libra-rySaturday Feb. 25.This morning it was very pleasant but this evening it rained very hard. This
                    morning I took the horse to water. I had a good ride. This afternoon I covered
                    some books. Every boys book, Trim the scissor's grinder, and the New night
                    caps.To day Father has been very busy. This P. M. I went over tosee Jimmie Maynard, he has got the mumps, and of course we plaied in the house,
                    his sister Ann Mary played with us, we plaied chess, checkers, and mumiped we had a splen did time if we
                    could have only gone out of doors, we would have had a better time. they were
                    just eating dinner when I got there. I expect that I will have to water the
                    horse.Sunday Feb. 26.This morning I went to sunday , and after I came home, Mother and I went to
                    church, it was pretty full. This evening there was church again. Mother and I
                    did not go. This morning I took the horse to water. I had a splendid ride. I
                    went before breakfast.This evening Mary Gredig and Mrs. Gredig came to see Marie.This evening just as soonas I got through my Journal and have carried my wood Catharine and I are going
                    over to Mrs. Schencks. To day Mr. Sanford came to see us, he stayed to dinner. I
                    expect that I will have to water the horse.Monday Feb. 27To day Catharine and Mrs. Heald have been washing the clothes, the got through by
                    dinner time, and now it is twenty minutes past four, and the clothes are all
                    dry, and Catharine is ironing, an't Catharine and Mrs. Heald smart. To Mrs.
                    Chinneworth came to see Father.To day I went to take a music lesson, I took some more on the varriations of
                    Home, sweet home, it is splendid.I did not get throughmy lessons till late. This P. M. Mrs. Heald went down to see Mrs. Lock and Mrs.
                    Tilson, but they werenot at home, and now she has gone down to the
                    Drugstore.This evening Johanna came to see Mother, with her little son John.Tuesday Feb. 28.It has been a very pleasant day, though last night it rained. To day Father has
                    been down to the Drugstore.Sunday several rebel spies were caught on the river in a boat, they were going
                    down the river to dis troy the Louden bridge. I donot know whether they will
                    hang them or not. I should-not be supprised if they were, any way it seems to me
                    that the men would feel a little ticklish around their necks.To day Mother got through ironing quite early in the forenoon as she ironed some
                    yesterday.I did not get through my lessons till late, I am going to try to do better
                    tomorrow. I expect that I will have to water the horse.Wednesday March 1st/65To day is the first of March it has been a very pleasant day, yester-day was the
                    last day of winter.To day I did not get through my lessons till late. This morning there was church,
                    and Uncle Levy had not come, and there was no fire over at the church. I took a
                    shovel full of coals over there and made the fire, then Mr. Humes asked me to
                    ring the bell, you ought to know what workI made of it. Last night we got a letter from Emma. Mr. Heald brought it. I wish
                    that she would come home. I want to see her so bad, when I go North I hope that
                    Father will not have me to stay as longe as he going to.Thurs day March 2It has been a rainy gloomy day. This morning Father went to market, he got two
                    fine stakes and a roast. Yesterday we quit smoking the hams, and just now I feel
                    like eating one.I took a music lesson, it is very muddy up by the Mar-ket house. Yesterday and
                    this evening Catharine has been arrang-ing Mr. Richardsons books.I got through my lessons in pretty good time, any way betterthan yesterday. It is just now pouring down rain, and will not I have a splendid
                    time to go after the milk in.Friday March 3.Last night and this morn-ing it just poured down rain, I wish to goodness that it
                    would stop for a while. Yesterday even-ing Mother got through arranging the
                    books, after I get through I went up there and helped. I picked out all of the
                    childs books and put them in a seperate place, there is a pretty large Library
                    of childs books. To day I didnot get through my lessons till late.To day we had stake for dinner, it was splendid.When Mrs. Chinneworth came to see Father last, she broughtus three sweet potatoes, each one I think would weigh nearly a pound.Saturday March 4It has been a very pleasant day, except this evening it is growing rather cold.
                    This evening I went down to Mr. Sanfords store and asked him if he would lend me
                    his horse, he said yes so I went up to the house and got him, and then Catharine
                    and I went to take a ride, we went as far as the pickets and then came back, we
                    had a splendid ride, and after we came home I took both horses down to the creek
                    and washed their legs off, then I came back and took Mr. Sanfords, horse home. I
                    did not like it at first, but I did after I had rode him a little while. Mr.
                    Sanford said that Icould have him any time that I wanted him. This evening I went down to the
                    shoemakers shop to see if my boots and shoes were fixed, he said no, and said
                    that I could not get them till Monday evening, from there I went to the
                    drugstore and got a bottle of glycerine.Sunday March 5th.It has been a very pleas ant sun-day. This morning I went to sunday school, after
                    I came home, I went to church with Mother, this P. M. there was church again, I
                    went, but Mother did not. This P. M. Johanna and Mrs. Eugster came to see
                    Mother. Mrs. Heald was tickeled with Johanna's baby.To day I did not water the horse before breakfast.The river is very high>and they think that it will wash the bridge away here, for it has already
                    washed away the bridge between here and Nashville, so we shall not get any
                    letters from Emma in a great while.Monday March 6.It has been a very pleasant day. Mother and Mrs. Heald have been washing cloths,
                    they got through early and Mother has been ironing.To day Father got a man to cut up our wood. I never saw a man work as he does in
                    all my life, there was over three loads of wood, and he has got them nearly cut
                    up only lacking two or three pieces. Mrs. Chinneworth came to see Father.To day I went to take a music lesson, I took some more of my Variations. I did
                    not getthrough my lessons till late.This P. M. Mrs. George Smith came to see Mother and Mrs. Heald. Last night Mr.
                    Atwell came to see us, I hope that he will not come very soon again, because I
                    had to show him my drawing , and my Journal.Tusday March 7To day the man got through sawing the wood a good deal before dinner, and has
                    been wheeling manure down in the frontyard. Father got another man to spade up
                    the garden, he is all through. I got a fork spade over at Mr. Smiths stable, and
                    a wheelbarrow at Dr. Rodger's. I have not been saying lessons to day, but
                    have been raking up leaves. This evening Johanna came to see Catharineshe brought the baby. I wish Mother had a baby, if she had I would be fussing
                    with it all of the time.This P. M. Mrs. Sanford came to see Mrs. Heald. To day Miss Lizzy Bearden and
                    Miss Anne Morris came to see Mother.It has been a very pleasant day.Wednesday March 8.This morning it was quite pleasant, but just a little before dinner-time it just
                    poured down rain, and has been raining ever since. Last night Father had the
                    head ache awfully, and is not feeling well yet. I hope he will by tomorrow. This
                    morning Marie planted onions in the garden.This morning Father said that the men were working on the fence but had to quit
                    as it began to rain.I did not get through my lessonstill late, but I will tomorrow because I have studied them well.Nearly two weeks ago Catharine planted some lettice and some raddishes, they have
                    come up.Thursday March 9It was rather cloudy this morning, and about dinner time it just poured down
                    rain. To day I took a music lesson, I took some more of my Variations. Yesterday
                    Mrs. Sanford came to see Mrs. HealdI got through my lessons earlier than yesterday.Yesterday Gen. Stoneman came to town. This evening Mrs. Wohlwend came to see
                    Mother, she has not gone yet.Father is pretty well I think, any way better than he was night before last.Friday March 10thLast night the wether took a sudden change, for this morning when I got up the
                    ground was covered with snow, and was freazing cold.To day Mr. Newman came and fixed the bedstead up in Mr. Healds room. This morning
                    I went over to the blacksmiths shop to have them fix a piece of iron for Father,
                    that of course put me back in my lessons, so I did not get through till
                    late.Father just now came in , and said that the mountains in North Carolina look
                    beautiful they are all covered with snow.Nothing has occured worthy of note that I know of in the social literary military
                    or political worlds.Saturday March 11It has been a very pleasant day, but pretty cold. This morning I went down to the
                    Drugstore and got some cloves for Mother.At the talk to day they said
                    that Gen. Thomas is coming through Knoxville with fifty thousand men to go up to
                    Richmond.Today after dinner I took the horse and carried some nails over to Fathers other
                    lot, for the men who are going to build the fence, I had a good ride, after I
                    came back, I put on Fathers saddle, and took the horse down to the Drugstore for
                    Father.Yesterday P. M. Dr. Smith did not come after his horse, I did not know what to do
                    about it, whether to feed it or not, but I concluded that I would I took off the
                    saddle too, and after I hadgone to bed he came and wanted to feed it, but Mother told him that I had, so he
                    went away, this morning I fed him again, and when I went after the cloves, I
                    told him and he said that he wanted to pay me but I of course would not take
                    it.Sunday, Mrch 12It has been a very pleasant sunday To day Father got notice that the
                    guerrilla's had captured the train between Louisville and Nashville;
                    several merchants had goods up on the train.This morning I went to church, Mother did not go, it was well filled. Capt.
                    Morrow was there. I expect he came last night. This evening there was church
                    again I went, it was not a fifth as full as it was this morning. Today I took
                    the horse to water. I had a good ride.This P. M. when I came from church, I found Mother on the bed.Monday March 13It has been a very pleasant day. This A. M. Col. Reeve ate breakfast here, as he
                    is coming to board, I like him very much. This A. M. Mrs. Heald and Mother have
                    have been washing. To day I took a music lesson I took some more of my
                    variations. To day Lieut. Judd came after Mrs. Richardsons saddle, I got it out
                    but he did not take it; I donot know why. To day Mr. Wolf came to take the
                    measure of Mothers foot he is going to make her a pair of slippers. This evening
                    Johanna came to see Mother.Tuesday March 14It has been a very pleasant day Last night Mother and Father went down to Mr.
                    Humes, they stayed a good while. Today I got through my lessons in pretty good
                    time. Yesterday evening when I went after the milk Agness told me that the cows
                    had not come, so I had to take mornings milk. This evening Marie has been
                    burning the leaves in the back yard, it made an awful blaze a moment ago.This evening Father has gone eight miles in the country. Mother and Mrs. Heald
                    have gone making calls.Wednesday March 15.It has been a very pleasant day, it has really been so warm that Catharine let me
                    have my desk up stairs, II said my lesson's up here too.This morning the negro soldiers started for Richmond. Father was standing on the
                    front porch at the time they past by, and they that knew him hollowed, good by
                    Dr.I forgot to say night before last, when Father came home he brought a letter for
                    me from Emma in my letter there was one for Catharine, she said that she went
                    skating, but tumbled down more than she skated. Yesterday evening I saw Capt.
                    Morrow. This evening I took the horse over to the shop to be shodd, just a
                    moment ago, I went after him. Last night the report was , that Gen. Lee was
                    coming down towards Knoxville, the town has just been full of troops all
                    day.Thursday March 16.Last night it rained nearly all night and to day has been a dark gloomy day.
                    Yesterday evening Gen. Thomas came. I would like to see what he looks like. I
                    got through my lessons in pretty good time.The other day Mother varnished my frame, and to day it was pretty dry so I
                    fastened in the picture, I fastened it in with little pieces of tin that I made
                    down at the tinshop. I put a black cord to it, to fasten it up on the wall. I am
                    going to fasten it up in my room. To day I took a music lesson. I took the rest
                    of my variations, after I get through that I am going to take a waltz. I forget
                    the name of it now.Friday March 17.Yesterday it grew a little colder, and has been pretty chilly all day.I did not get through my lessons as soon as I did yesterday but not very late. I
                    am going to say lessons tomorrow and have my holiday Monday, because Monday
                    Mother is washing and can not hear my lessons very well. Today the black man
                    down at the store came up after Father's horse for Mr. Sanford. I donot
                    think he has brought him back yet. This morning there was church because it is
                    Lent.Saturday March 18.This morning before I began my lessons I shook the mats for Catharine, then I
                    went over to Mr. Dickenson's with a basket that Mrs. Schlaffer sent some
                    cakein to Mother. This P. M. Mother Mrs. Heald and I walked out to Mr. Jacksons, we
                    stayed I guess about an hour. I had a splendid time, first we plaied black-man,
                    and then base, after that I we swung the girls, they have got a good swing,
                    after they got tired of swinging, we plaied, Poor puss wants a covrnes, after we got tired of
                    playing that the boys, (John and Charley) and I plaied marbles, the Mrs.
                    Schleiplfer called us in, and gave us some cake and lemonade. I had a hyfaluten
                    time, and when we was coming home, I was very tired, after playing so hard. as
                    we came home we met Miss Lizzie Bearden and Miss Mina Merise horseback
                    riding.Sunday March 19It has been a very pleasant sunday Last night, I do not think I had been in bed 5
                    minutes before I went to sleep, because I was so tired, but this AM. when I got
                    up I was not tired a bit. I did not feel as if I had walked an inch yesterday.
                    This A.M. I took the horse to water, after I came home I went to sunday school,
                    after that was over, I went to church, Mother did not go, this P. M. there was
                    church again Mother and I went.Father says there are a large number of troops passing up the road, there are so
                    many, that the trains can not pass each other.Monday March 20It has been a very pleasant but rather warm day. To day I have not been saying
                    lessons,but wrote and drew and studied tomorrows lessons. To day I have been writing a
                    letter to Emma, I only wrote it on the slate, I am going to copy it some other
                    day. Today I took a music lesson. Mrs. Wick's has bought a new piano, it is
                    a splendid one. Father has bought a cow it is up in the lair now, it has got a little calf,
                    they both look alike. I hope Mother will teach me how to milk, so I can milk it
                    instead of Marie.This evening Mrs. Eugster and Johanna came to see Mother.To day Catharine was up before 5 o clock and got through washing long before
                    dinner, I expect when she was up the rest of us was snoosing.Tuesday March 21It has been a rainy day,Yesterday I made a stool for Marie to set on when she milks this morning I took
                    the cow down to the creek to water it, but just as soon as I got down there it
                    turned and ran home so fast that I could not catch up with it. I did not get
                    through with my lessons till late, but am going to try to do better hereafter.
                    Yesterday evening Father and I had an awful time trying to keep the cow in the
                    lain, and could not succeed till we fixed it so that the cow could see the
                    calf.Wednesday March 22It has been a very pleasant day. Father and I have been making a place for the
                    calf, we are not though but just as soon as I get through my Journal, I am going
                    to help finish it. To day Mrs. Heald went up to Mrs. Sanfords. Yesterday it
                    hailed awfully. Father was out in it, his horse cut up awfully, and Father
                    expected every moment the wind would blow him off of his horse, he borrowed a
                    negros over coat to come home in.Thursday March 23It has been a pleasant day, Yesterday P. M. Father and I got through fixing a pen
                    for the calf,This morning Mrs. Heald when across the river in an ambulance her and Mrs.
                    Sanford.To day they said at the table that rumer was, Gef. Davis, had resigned, and Lee
                    had surren dered his army to the federals. I got through my lessons in pretty
                    good time.I went to take a music lesson, Mrs. Wicks gave me a ticket to go to the consert
                    it is going to be at the asylum, for the benefit of the soldiers. I have given
                    my ticket to Mother, I donot care about going.Friday March 24It has been a very cold day Today I got through my lessons in pretty good time.
                    To day I took Mothers shoes down to the shoemakers shop to be mendid , as soon
                    as I get through my journal I am going after them. I forgot to say when I went
                    to take Mother's shoes I took two books to Dr. Horner.Today I made a pair of stilts to learn how to walk on them. I made them very low,
                    but when I can walk on low ones, I will make them higher.Saturday March 25.It has been a rather cold day. I got through my lessons in good time. Yesterday
                    evening I went up to Mrs. Eugsters to get Mothers slippers, but I could not find
                    any body, so I came home. Father and I fixed the bars across the lain so that
                    the cow could not get out when we let her in in the evening. To day Mrs. Gredig
                    came to see Marie. This P. M. Emil came after Fathers horse for Mrs. Sanford. I
                    have been writing a letter to Emma. Mrs. Chiniworth came to see Father. I went
                    after Mothers shoes but they were not done.Sunday March 26This morning I went to church and sunday school, it was crowded. Mother did not
                    go. This evening there was church again Mrs. Heald and I were going to the 2
                    presbyterian, but when we got over there we found that there was not going to be
                    church, so we took a walk we went down as far as Mr. Hume's house, and then
                    came back on the other street. To day Mary Gredig came to see Marie. Father has
                    had the sick head ache nearly all day.Mrs. Heald told me that the report is that Richmond is takenMonday March 27.Today Mrs. Heald and MOther have been washing clothes. Today I took a music
                    lesson. It has been a warm but pleasant day.This morning Mrs. Sanford came to see Mrs. Heald, she did not stay very long.
                    Mother has got a very bad cold. I hope she will get over it soon. This evening
                    Johanna came to see Mother. This A.M. I went after Mother's shoes, and for
                    a wonder they were fixed. Father is a little better but I know he is not quite
                    well, but I hope he will be by tomorrow.This P.M. Mrs. George Smith and Mrs. Cooper came to see Father.Tuesday March 28.This morning it sprinkled a little but has been a very pleasant day, just the
                    time for fishing. I got through my lessons in pretty good time. To day after I
                    got through my lessons, I went down to the shoemakers shop to to get the pegs
                    taken off of Mother's shoe.Today we had letice for dinnerit was very good. I felt like eating all there was in the garden, the onions that
                    Marie set out have grown nicely, after a while we will have every thing eatable,
                    that is just what is the matter.Yesterday evening I took the letter I wrote down to the postoffice, it was not
                    quite full, so Mother wrote a note to her on the same sheet.I forgot to say, next Sunday there is going to be a Sunday school at three o
                    clock in the P.M.Wednesday March 29.It has been a very pleasant day. I got through my lessons in pretty good time,
                    affer I got through up to Johanna's to take a note. from there I went over
                    to Mr. Eugsters after Catharine's slipper. Yesterday evening Charley Krutch
                    came to see me, I lent him a book, the name of itis "Turn the sisors grinder."Yesterday P.M. I went and got Mr. Cooper to cut a piece of glass for the picture
                    of Mothers village, from there I went down to Mrs. Krutche's store and got
                    some lasting for her, not long before I went Mother and Mrs. Heald went to take
                    a walk, they went out to the graveyard. This evening Mrs. Tillson and Mrs. Lock
                    came to see Mother and Mrs. Heald, and just as they were going, Mrs. Sanford and
                    Miss Lu. came.Thursday March 30Last night and this morning it rained. Today I did not get through my lessons
                    till late.Today Father got a letter from Emma. Today I went to take a music lessons , I
                    have taken a waltz, I for get the name of it, itFriday March 31th/65Yesterday when I wrote my Journal, I made an awful mistake, when I turned over a
                    leaf (as I thought) I began to write, and after I got through, I found that I
                    had turned over two I am very sorry, I hope I shall never make this misstake
                    again. Today I got through my lessons in pretty good time.This morning for a wonder I got up 20 minutes before 5 o clock. This P.M. Miss
                    Cate White came to see Mother, after that Mrs. Plumley came to see Mother and
                    Mrs. Heald. This evening Johanna came to see Mother. Today Mother has began to
                    clean house. Today Mother hung those Sneed pictures in her room, it makes the room look extry
                    hy-fa-lu-ten.I said all the lessons I had to recite before breakfast, excep reading and
                    arithmetic. I am going to do so all of the time. I think it is the best way
                    too.Saturday April 1stIt has been a very pleasant day. This morning Jimmie Maynard came here. Mother
                    has been cleaning out the other room of the Col.This evening I fixed my work bench out in the stable, and work out there full of
                    the afternoon, till about 4 o clock, as I quit, I found that I was quite sick, I
                    had been working so hard that I had not noticed it, I have had two or three
                    chills since I came in, just as soon as I write my Journal I am going to bed,
                    you need not expect good writing, for I can hardly hold my penThe following text is continued from Thursday March
                    30.is very pretty, for Mrs. Wicks played it for me. This evening Mother and Mrs.
                    Heald were going to take a walk, but I do not suppose they will as it is now
                    raining.Yesterday the cars ran off of the track, and broke a mans leg, Father had to go
                    and set it. I helped him find the splints. I told Father I pitied the man that
                    had to wair them.Sunday April 2st / 65.Yesterday evening directly after I wrote my Journal I went to bed, I have not had
                    on my clothes, I have been feeling unwell all day, though not half so bad as I
                    felt yesterday P.M. last night I had to take medicine, I vomited it up, then of
                    course I had to take the same medicine again, and I am right glad to say that I
                    did not vomit it up till Father and Mother were a sleep, so I did not have to
                    take anymore till in the A.M. then I had to take some magnesia; I have been down in the
                    Nursery all day. Mother read out of some books of hers to me, the story is very
                    pretty, she is not through with it yet the name of it is "Hildebrand".
                    This morning Mr. Heald started for the North, he has gone over the mountains, I
                    hope he will bring me a putty (pretty) as the negro's say. This A.M. and
                    this P.M. there was church, Mother did not go, a she had to stay home and nurse
                    her little darling.This P. M. Mother and Mrs. Heald took a walk, as Mrs. Heald has been feeling
                    sad.Monday April 3.Today I am a great deal better, I have been up all day, I am so glad that I am
                    nearly well, but I still have to take the medicine, this morning I took two
                    doses of Quinia and I just took another dose. To day I took a music lesson I
                    took a part of Smiths march.This noon we got the news that Gen. Grant had taken Petersburg and Richmond, with
                    12 000 prisoners, every union person are rejoicing, Mrs. Cooper was nearly out
                    of her wits when I went to take a music lesson.This P.M. Johanna came to see Catharine. Mother and Mrs. Heald have been washing.
                    This morning the men came to paint the rooms, they are painting now, they are
                    only painting the wood work, Father is going to have them paper the walls. This
                    P.M. they have been shooting cannons, because Richmond is taken.Tuesday April 4.It has been a pleasant day but rather muddy. I have been pretty well all day, but
                    rather dozy. Yesterday when I took a music lesson, I for-got to bring my new
                    piece of music home,so to day after I got through, I went after it. Today and Yesterday Father has
                    been down to the Drugstore a good deal.Today they have been papering Mrs. Healds room, they are nearly through.This P.M. Mrs. Heald got a dispatch from Mr. Heald. This evening Mrs. Heald and
                    Mother are going to take a walk.Wednesday April 5Last night there were firworks, Col. Gibson, and Mr. Cooper had some, nearly
                    every house was illuminated, I thought it was beautiful, they sent up sky
                    rockets and falling stars and plaied a few pieces, they did all of this to
                    celebrate the taking of Richmond. Today I have not been saying lessons.
                    Catharine let me work instead, I like it much better.Last night Father got a letter from Mrs. Richardson, Emma is prettysick, I hope she will be well soon.This morning I went over to the talor shop to get Fathers measure.This evening I went down town to get three more rolls of paper.Just now I made a big blot, I am very sorry, and hope I will not make any more
                    very soon.Thursday April 6Last night it rained, and it did this morning a little, but it has been a very
                    pleasant day. Today I piled all of the wood up, and cleared up the wood shed.
                    This morning the negroes clelebrated the capture of Richmond, first they had a
                    band, and next the negro soldiers, and then the women, after that the children,
                    they went all over town.This noon I went down town, to carry one of the rolls of paper back, and to get
                    Mrs. Heald half of a queireof note paper, 6 envelopes, and a bottle of ink. I took a music lesson, I took a
                    part of Smith's march, it is beautiful.Today Marie set out some to-matoes, I fix the stick for her to plant them by.Friday April 7th/65I got through my lessons in pretty good time. This morning there was church.
                    Mother went, Yesterday I went down to Mr. Shepards shop to get my plain
                    sharpened and get some splits to make a fire board for the Nursery, Office, and
                    the rooms up stairs, I left my tools there to be sharpened, and this morning I
                    went after them but they were not fixed, so I got Mr. Newman to do it for me. I
                    have been working on the fireboards to-day. A man brought us a load of wood.
                    This noon I took the horse to water. The news to day is that Sheridan isfighting the rebels, and it is reported that Gen. Lee, is going to surrender his
                    army, instead of coming to make a visit down here. Father is going to bring a
                    gentleman to tea, and Mothers face is as long as a poker.Saturday April, 8It has been a pleasant but rather cold day. To day I have been working out in my
                    shop just lots. Catharine has given me a job to do, I have to mak five fire
                    boards. I have got one frame done, the frame for the Nursery, and have got the
                    Office frame about half done. I like to carpenter very well, it gives me as much
                    exercise as any play I know of, after I get my frames done I am going to get
                    Mother to give me another job. this evening Father gave me twenty cents, to buy
                    me some nails, now I am all fixed, in the way of carpenter shape.Today Mrs. Chinneworth came to see Father. Mother has been making cake. Father
                    got a dispatch from Mr. Richardson, that sister is get better, I am so glad,
                    This P. M. Mother and Mrs. Heald have gone out calling.Sunday April 9thThis morning Father had to got out in the country, he did not get home for
                    church, we had be-gan to eat dinner before he came. This AM. Mother and I went
                    to church, it wss pretty full, Mr. Humes said there was going to be church this
                    P.M. but no bell rang, so I do not think there was any, I guess the reason was
                    because it rained. The gentleman that ate supper here one or two nights ago, was
                    at church, Mother asked him to come and take dinner with us, but he said that he
                    was invited up to Mr. Smiths.Yesterday P.M. Mrs. Heald and I took a walk, and when we got homewe found Mrs. Sanford here, Mrs. Heald had just been talking about going up
                    there, but I told her that I wanted to get up early in the morning, and I had
                    better go to bed early, so we did not go, and it is a good thing we did not go
                    is not it.Monday April 10.Today we got the news that Lee had surrendered, I am so glad, they have been
                    firing of cannons and guns all of the forenoon. Last night Father got four
                    letters from Mrs. Richardson, Emma has been very sick, in one of the letters
                    they expected that she would die, the letters were older than the dispatch, and
                    Father sayes that if he had got those letters before the despatch, he would have
                    started for New Jersey.I took the horse to water. Mother did not wash much to day as it has not been a
                    good day to dry.Today I took a music lesson, I have taken the rest of smiths march, after I have
                    learnt that I am going to take another piece, the name of it is, "A long
                    time ago."Tuesday April 11.It has been a very pleasant day, This morning I took the horse to water, I had a
                    nice ride. Today I went down to the store to get a bottle of glycerine, and from
                    there I went to find a black woman to come and help Mother to clean house, she
                    is comming tomorrow.Father has been down to the Drugstore a good while. Mother has been washing the
                    clothes. Yesterday evening I shelled nearly half of a bushle of corn, I am going
                    to shell some every day till I get a bag full, then I am going to take it down
                    to the mill and have it ground.Yesterday Mr. Wohlwend came to cut up our wood, he is not through yet.This P. M. Johanna came to see Mother, Yesterday Mrs. Gredig came to see
                    Marie.Wednesday April 12This A.M. it rained very hard, and it has been a dark gloomy day. To day I did
                    not get through my lessons till late.This morning before six o clock I went to market. The black woman that is going
                    to help us clean house, came early this morning. Last night Father got a letter
                    from Mr. Richardson, Emma is improving.Mother and Marie have been mending carpets. Yesterday Marie began to make sope.
                    As Mr. Stephenson is drunk Father had to stay down to the Drugstore most all
                    day, yesterday when he came home he was very tiredThursday April 13.It has been a pleasant day.Today Mrs. Schlapbler and Hal has been here all day, I have not been saying
                    lessons, Mother let me play with Hal. we have been having a nice time, he was
                    perfectly delighted with the calf, and the kittens, I would play I was his
                    horse, he said that he wished he had a little horse about as big as I am, this
                    A.M. when they came I drove the carry all around in the church yard and tied him
                    for Mr. Jackson. after I get through writing my Journal and have learned my
                    verses I am going to take Mrs. Schlapber and Hal up to Mr. Eugsters. Today I
                    took a music lesson, I have taken a part of a piece named, "Long; long;
                    ago."Friday April 14It has been a very pleasant day. Today has been Good Friday, there wa church,
                    Mother went.Today I got through my lessons in good time. This A.M. I tookthe horse to water, Father says that he aught to be watered three times a day
                    now, as it is so very warm. I got through shelling a bag full of corn and have
                    commenced a bag full of nice corn to be ground to eat.Mother and Mrs. Heald have been mending carpets. Guess what time I got up this
                    morning, well, I will tell you I got up at five o clock for a wonder.Saturday April 15th.This morning it rained, but it has been a rather pleasant day. Today I got
                    through shelling a bushel of eating corn. Today Mrs. Schaepbfer and Hal. came
                    back, Mrs. Schlapbfer has gone down to Mr. Benzigers, Mother and I were going,
                    her sister wanted to go so Mother did not go, but she said that I might go up to
                    Mr. Sanfords and get his horse but it was not there, so I could not go, Mother
                    and I will go some other time. Hal. has beenhere ever since she went. Just a moment ago, Father came in and brought the awful
                    news that Mr. Lincoln had been murdered, I went down to Mr. Humes to see if they
                    must toll the bell, Hal. went with me.Sunday April 16th.It has been a pleasant Sunday. This morning Catharine and I went to church, it
                    was crowded, just before that I went to sunday school, Catharine fixed a nice
                    Easter egg to give to Jimmy Maynard, he was not there so I gave it to his sister
                    to give to him it was very pretty, it had on it "from your friend
                    Willie", "remember me" and a twig of leaves. This evening there
                    was church again, I went, but Catharine did not.Today they have been firing cannon all day, for the honour of Mr. Lincolns
                    burial.I watered the horse before breakfast. This P.M. Mrs. Heald has gone up toMrs. Sanfords.Monday April 17.This morning I took the horse to water I had a splendid ride. Mrs. Col. Ewing
                    came to see Mother, Mother says she likes her very much. Today Mr. Britt came to
                    fix the hall, he is going to paper and paint it.Today Catharine has been washing the clothes This P.M. Mrs. Heald what to make
                    calls, she got back just now.To day I took a music lesson I took a page of the Irish surenade.After I get through writing my journal I am going to water the horse. That makes
                    me think, yesterday Father was thrown from his horse, right into the mud, it did
                    not hurt him much as he was thrown into the mud, It was a good thing he was,
                    instead of on a rock, he was all covered with mud, Mother said that she was
                    goingto send him to bed without his supper.Tuesday April 18.Today it rained some, but has been a rather pleasant day. Today I did not get
                    through my lessons till late. Yesterday P.M. Mother and Father went up to Mr.
                    Smilys, and Mrs. Heald and I went to take a walk, we had got home, and I had
                    gone to bed be-fore they came.Mother has been ironing the clothes. Mr. Park is now having school in Mr. Staubs
                    old shop, and such a noise the children do make Mrs. Heald says that she expects
                    that there will be a through mail to night, and if there is, I hope we will get
                    a letter from Emma.Wednesday April 19Laast night Father, Mother and I went up to Mrs. Cooper's to tea, there was
                    a good many of people there, we children, did not go in the parlor with the big folks, we stayed up stairs a part of
                    the time, and when we got tired of staying up there, we came down into the
                    sitting room. I know we had a better time than the rest of the folks, we told
                    stories plaied jacks, and told our fortunes, Ella has got a book, the name of it
                    is the fortune teller, she will ask a question, and then I will say some number,
                    and she will turn to that number, and read the answer to me, once she asked me
                    who I was to be married by , I gave the number 12, and the answer was, by Mr.
                    Brownlow. we did not come home till about half past ten.This P. M. it rained very hard. I did not get through my lessons till late, I am
                    going to try to do better tomorrow.Today the painter has been painting the stair steps.Thursday April 20.Today Father got a letter from Aunt Sue, and two or three from Mrs. Richardson ,
                    Emma is improving.This morning I took the horse to water, and this noon, I expect I shall have to
                    this P.M. I got through my lessons earlier than yesterday, I am going to try to
                    do better tomorrow. Father has been down to the drugstore a good deal to
                    day.Today I took a music lesson, I took another page of the Irish serrenade.Today Mother has been mending carpets. I do not know exactly, but I think the
                    painter will get through painting the hall this evening. This A.M. Sally and
                    Georgeann Jackson came to see Catharine.Friday April 21Today I took the horse to water, I took him this morning and this noon, I expect
                    I will have totake him again this P.M.Last night the Col. got married to Miss Willie Maynard, he left here directly
                    after tea, he is going to stay over there for several days, Father seen him to
                    day but was not close enough to him to speak. Father and Mother were both
                    envited, but did not go. Today the painter has been paining the hall up
                    stairs.This A.M. I went up to market, for Mother. Last night Mrs. Heald and Mother went
                    away, I do not know where. Mother has been putting down the carpet in the Cols.
                    room.Yesterday when I took my music lesson, I saw Embry Hoss he is going home day
                    after tomorrow, he promised to write to me.Saturday April 22Last night Father says it poured rain, I was so sound a sleepthat I did not hear it. Father has been down to the drug store most all day.This morning I went up to market before, breakfast, to get the gala I engaged for
                    Mother. This A.M. I took the horse to water, I had a good ride. Mother has been
                    cleaning, and putting the carpet down in her old room.Last night the goods down at the store came, we got a barrel of hams. This P.M.
                    Mrs. Heald has gone up to Mrs. Sanfords. I did not get through my lessons till
                    late.Today Mrs. Chinniworth came to see Father.Sunday April 23.This morning Mother and I went to church, it was well filled, there was church
                    again this evening, I went, but Mother did not. This morning I watered the horse
                    be-fore breakfast, it was verycool riding.This evening there was a sunday school up to the old academy, it was a kind of
                    singing school, I went, Mr. Spence is the head man, he told us that each of the
                    scholars , that would bring five new scholars he would make them a present of a
                    nice Bible, or if they had a bible, a nice story book. This P.M. Johanna and Mr.
                    Baenziger came here, Mr. Baenziger asked me if I could talk much German, (he
                    asked it in German) I told him ([written in German])Monday April 24It has been a very pleasant day, though this morning very cool.This A.M. and this noon I took the horse to water , I had a good ride. Father got
                    a letter from Emma, Mr. Haws is North he went to see how she was getting
                    along.she wrote the letter her-self this time.Lee has surrendered his army, and they say there will be peace soon (bully)
                    Mother has been ironing the clothes.Today I went to take a music lesson, I took the rest of the Irish serenade, it is
                    splendid. This P.M. the Col. and his lady are comming to board here. This
                    morning I went down to Mr. Staubs shop to get a pair of pants cut for FatherTuesday April 25It has been a very pleasant day. This morning about five o clock, when Father was
                    just getting good to sleep, Mr. Mc Nutt came for Father to go out to his house;
                    I wish the people would let him a-lone, when it is time to sleep, for goodnessd
                    sakes, I don't want to be a Dr.Yesterday evening I went to get a heel put on myshoe, and went down to the taylor shop to get them to cut pants, for Father to
                    day I went after them but they were not done, my shoes were, but the pants were
                    not. Mr. Staub said they would be by the P.M. Yesterday I went down town and got
                    Mother some tape and some lasting.To day the painter came back to finish his painting , he has been sick. Ella Lock
                    came to see me.Wednesday April 26It has been a very pleasant warm day. This morning and this noon I took the horse
                    to water. This morning Mrs. Fleming and Miss Sue Boyd came to see Mother and
                    Mrs. Reeve, Mrs. Reeve was not here, but Mother was. I did not get through my
                    lessons till late, I am going to try to do better tomorrow.This P.M. I went over to the black-Smiths shop after the horse.Today Mr. Wohlwend came and set out the bean poles. he is now sawing wood.
                    Yesterday Mother got through making the curtains in Mrs. Healds room and in one
                    of Mrs. Reeves roomThursday April 27.Last night Mother went to bed, I guess about 15 minutes after tea, and has been
                    there ever since, last night in the night she was very sick, to day she has not
                    been able to sit up , only while Mrs. Heald made the bed up, I am so sorry she
                    is sick. I hope she will be better by tomorrow. I read to her a little
                    while.Yesterday evening Jimmie Maynard came to see me, to day he came to see his
                    sister, I gave mea splendid glass marble.This P.M. a box came for Mrs. Heald from Mr. Heald, he sent her a good many
                    things, among which was a splendid bonnet.Friday April 28.Today Mother was a little better, but was so week that she could not sit up, if
                    she is not well by tomorrow I will cry, but she says that if I cry gold she will
                    make me cry worse.Today I helped Marie wash the dishes. Last night I helped Marie empty the sugar
                    barrel, that was fun, "I guess you know why."Today Mr. Britt did not come to paint I am afraid he is sick.Yesterday P. M. Charley Nelson and Charley Krutck came to see me, we had a
                    splendid time.This A.M. Mrs. Cooper, Mrs. SAnford and Miss Shavanne came to see Mother Mrs.
                    Heald & Mrs. Reeve, Mrs. Reeve was not in.Saturday April 29.Mother is a little better, but not able to be out of bed long, she did not sleep
                    hardly any last night. Last night Mr. Heald came , just when we were washing the
                    dishes, so Marie flew around, and at last we got him something to eat. Yesterday
                    P.M. I went down to the post-office for Father.Today Mrs. Schenck came to see Mother. Father has put up the border in Mrs.
                    Healds room, and is now doing it in Mrs. Reeve's room it makes quite a
                    change.This A.M. I took the horse to water. Mrs. Gredig came to see Marie. This P.M.
                    Marie & I have planted the Cucumber, and several other things.Sunday April 30Yesterday was Fathers birth day. This A. M. Mother got up, but could not stay up
                    not more the 5 or 10 minutes, her Sister has been here all day, and this P.M.
                    Mrs. Eugster came to see her. This morning I went to Sunday school and to church
                    , they were both pretty well filled.This evening there was church again I did not go. O; I forgot to say the Col. and
                    his wife came to our church to day. This P.M. I watered the horse before
                    breakfast.Yesterday evening the cow and the calf got out, first I tryed to get them in on
                    foot, I did not succeed, so I took the horse, and after I had runnearly all over town, I got them in.Monday May 1It has been a very pleasant, but rather cold day. Mother had to take a pillof
                    blue mass last night, that made
                    her more sick , but this evening I think she feels better, she got up and is now
                    up in Mrs. Heald's room.To day Mrs. Schenck helped Marie wash the clothes. This A.M. I took the horse to
                    water, it was very cold riding.Today as it was may day, I did not have to take a music lesson, as Mrs. Wicks had
                    gone to spend May day.This morning Mrs. Smith came to see Mother, Mrs. Heiskel and Mrs. Mc Calla came
                    in the evening.This morning Mrs. Sanford came to see Mrs. Heald.Tuesday May 2ndMother has been so well to day that she could set up nearly all day.Yesterday Jimmie Maynard came to see me. I did not have to water the horse as
                    Father had to go away with him. Father got a man to tune the piano, he is not
                    through, he will finish it tomorrow.Today Mrs. George Smith came to see Mother. This evening Johanna came to see
                    Mother. Today Mrs. Schenck came and helped Marie.This morning the painter came to paint again, he has been sick. I expect I will
                    have to water the horse.Wednesday May 3.It has been a very pleasant day. Today I did not get through my lessons till very
                    late, I am going to do better tomorrow. Last night therewas a fire, Mr. Nelsons kitchen got on fire, Father got up and thought it was
                    certainly the church, he ran over there just as fast as he could he did not have
                    any thing on but his nightgown, and besides he was barefooted, but as soon as he
                    found that it was not the church, he came home, and put on his clothes and went
                    over where the fire was, the kitchen was burned down to the ground, but the rest
                    of the house was saved. This morning I took the horse to water. Today Mother got
                    a letter from Emma.Thursday May 4th/65It has been a very pleasant but warm day. This morning I took the horse to water.
                    This morning Mrs. Cooper came to see Mother. I took a music lesson, Mrs. Wicks
                    is going to have her consert a week from to day. I am going to play myDuet with Mrs. Wicks. This A.M. Mrs. Maynard and Jimmie came to see Mrs. Reeve.
                    This P.M. Mother and Father have gone in the country, they have gone up to the
                    forks of the river. Today I had to take the horse down to the Drugstore for Dr.
                    Paxton. Today Mother went a way but I do not know where.Night before last there was a party up to Mrs. Slmidges the Col. and his wife went.Friday May 5th.It has been a very warm but pleasant day. Yesterday evening Mrs. Heald and I took
                    a walk. Father and MOther did not get home last night till after dark, they rode
                    18 miles, Father rode Mr. Sanfords horse, so when he came home, I had to take
                    the horse home.This morning I took the horse to water, I had a good ride. I did not get through
                    my lessons in very good time, as I did not begin intime, but I know my lessons
                    pretty well. This P.M. Lieut. Judd came to see Mrs. Reeve.Yesterday A.M. as Marie and I were carrying on breakfast, Marie fell down with a
                    plate of mutton, it was scoulding hot, it burned her hand awfully, and broke the
                    plate.Saturday May 6th.It has been a very warm but pleasant day. This morning as I was going to water
                    the horse, Mrs. Plumlee came out at the door, and hollowed for me to come up
                    there, she told me that she was going to have a party for children, she asked me
                    to come, and asked me the names of a good many of the little girls. Mother is
                    goingto let me go, we have to go down there at six o clock. Today I had to go down
                    town for Mother.Tomorrow morning at 6 o clock Mother and Father are going in the country, I have
                    to get up early and go after Mr. Sanfords horse for Father to ride.Sunday May 7th.Last night I went to the party , it broke up in good time, there was lots of
                    girls and boys, we had a splendid time, and had lots of goodyes, when it was out
                    I took Matty Lee & Josy Heiskel home I was tired when I came home I tell you
                    I was, after we ate supper, we went out doors and plaied, we played, "round
                    this carpet you must kneal," and every thing that was playable.Charley Nelson, George Baxter, Willie Bradly, and a great many of the town boys
                    were there, I don't feel like going to a party very soon again.This morning Mother and Father went in the country, somewheres near six o clock,
                    I got Mr. Sanfords horse and cleaned him, they did not get back till after
                    church time. This A.M. & this P.M. there was church.Monday May 8th/65Today it just poured down rain. Today Mother has been washing the clothes, as it
                    rained it bothered her in getting the clothes dry.The Cowan family have returned, Miss Kate Cary came with them , she has been with
                    Emma a great deal , she was with her when she was sick, she was up stairsto see Mrs. Reeve, and Father did not know she was , he went up there to see
                    where she stayed , so that he could go and invite her here to tea, but as he
                    found her up stairs, he envited her in-to the nursery, they had at one time
                    given up all hope of her ever living, but now she is improving. Today I took a
                    music lesson, I have to go again tomorrow as Mrs. Wicks is going to have her
                    concert so soonTuesday May 9It has been a very pleasant day. Yesterday evening I had to go down to the
                    Drugstore for Father, to ex change some money to give to some negroes for
                    choping up our wood.Today I went to take a music lesson I have to take another one tomorrow, at 5. to
                    day when I went, Mary Frankgave me her picture, she wants mine.I got through my lessons in good time I am going to try to do so again
                    tomorrow.This evening Mother and Mrs. Heald have gone calling. Father has gone out to Mr.
                    Jacksons. I have to begin to shelling corn again to day for the cow. I have to
                    get half of a bushel a day.Wednesday May 10thIt has been a very warm, but pleasant day. I did not get through my lessons as
                    early as I did yesterday. This morning I took the horse over to the blacksmith
                    Shop to be shod. night before last Father got a letter from Emma. Today Miss
                    Cary ate dinner with us,Yesterday evening I went down to the Drugstore, to get two boxes of tea for us,
                    after I came back, I went down with Mrs. Heald.Yester Mother and Mrs. Heald did not get back till tea time.Yester day I shelled half a bushel of corn I am going to shell another half to
                    day, Marie helped me yesterday.This P.M. I am going to take a music lesson. This A.M. Miss Josie Jackson came to
                    see Mrs. Reeve, but as she was not in she asked for Mother.Thursday May 11thIt has been a very dark, rainy, gloomy day. This morning I went up to Mrs. Wicks
                    to play over my Duet for the Concert, so after all Mrs. Wicks is going to make
                    me play, I hate it awfully. Today at two o clock I had to go over to the Baptist
                    church, to play it but when I got over there Mrs. Wicks told me that the piano
                    had not come, so of course I could not play, and what do you think she did, why
                    she sat me to work runing allover town for her, next time when there is a concert, (I won't tell Mother)
                    I will get her to let me go in the country, and when the concert is over I will
                    come home, as it is so rainy I think it would be best for Mrs. Wicks to put it
                    off till a pleasanter day, any way. This P.M. I went down to the Drugstore for
                    Father.Friday May 12thLast night I went to the concert the concert did not open till 8 o
                    clock but we had to go at 7 o clock so as to be ready by 8, we stayed in Dr.
                    Cardwells office till it was time, we walked in, in single file, the tallest in
                    front, I came after Mary Frank Cooper, I am the tallest, but as I was not going
                    to set up on the stage, and all of the rest were, so that I could take a set as
                    I wentalong, I could tell when Mrs. Wicks wanted me by the programme, it went off
                    splendidly I think, as Mr. Smith was going to proforme, Mother went up to stay
                    with her. F went, he did not stay till it was over, as soon as I had plaied my
                    peice he left, and went after mother, the best thing that was plaied, was a Solo
                    & quartett, "Oil on the brain", the Concert is going to be
                    repeated again to night, I am not going to play, Ella Wicks is going to play, as
                    she did not yesterday evening, I am not going because I want Mother and Father
                    to go.Saturday May 13thLast night Mother and Father did not go to the concert Mother let me go , I came
                    out at recess, at recess the band played two pieces, just as soon as they got
                    throughplaying I came home. Today I did not get through Mondays lessons till late. I am
                    going to do better Tuesday, you see if I donot. This morning the Col. and his wife started to his home they will be back by
                    Wednesday, I think his home it at Greensville. To day Mr. Baenziger came to see
                    Mother, he did not stay very long.This A.M. I went up to the market to get some meat. We ate breakfast at half past
                    6 o clock this morning wish we could do so every day.Sunday May 14th 1865It has been a very pleasant day. This morning I went to Sunday school and to
                    church, Mother did not go, this evening there was church again, Mother and I
                    went.This A.M. I watered the horse before breakfast, it was very pleasantriding. There was singing school again up to the Institute I went, we have bully
                    times singing. Yesterday Father got a letter from Emma.Today we got the news that Jeff Davis was captured and all of his Cabinate. I am
                    glad they have caught but, I hope to goodness they will not hang him.Monday May 15.It has been a very pleasant day. Today Mother got through washing the clothes and
                    they were dry before dinner, and I shelled a bag full of corn before dinner too,
                    an't we getting "smart".Today I got an invation to go to Mary Gibsons party next Thursday, Mother says I
                    may go if I am am ris gafter
                        Duoebr. I went to take a music lesson.Today Father had to go in the country nine miles. The Ramseyfamily have come back, yesterday I saw Miss Mary. Yesterday evening Mother and
                    Mrs. Heald went up to see how Mrs. Sanford was, Mr. Sanford came home with them.
                    Today one of our chickens got out, I caught it.Tuesday May 16th/65It has been a very pleasant but warm day. Today I got up 5 minutes before 5 o
                    clock. We are eating breakfast at half past 6 all of the time now. Today Mother
                    got all through ironing before dinner, but I did not get through my lessons till
                    late, am going to try to do better tomorrow.This morning I went to market, I got 11 pounds and a half of beef.The man came after the corn to be grouned. This evening Father had to go out to
                    Mr. Jacksons. I do not get through my lessons tomorrow in good time, I will get
                    Mother to wear her stocking outover my back, because as soon as I get up stairs, "I begin to
                    play."Wednesday May 17thYesterday I took the horse to water. This morning was pleasant, but this noon it
                    just poured down rain, Mother had been taking the things out of my room and had
                    them laid out on the grass to sun, and all of a sudden it began to rain, I tell
                    you Mother had to fly around to get them in.Yesterday and to day we had strawberries for dinner, I tell you they were good, I
                    beleive that I could eat them as fast as any body could pick them, any way they
                    go down my mouth pretty fast. Today Brownlow said in his paper that Mrs. Wicks
                    scholars are the Bells of Knoxville, wonder if I am a Bell, I hope I am.Thursday May 18thLast night and today it poured down rain, but this evening it was very pleasant.
                    Today Father was going to buy another horse , but when he rode him he did not
                    like him, so he did not buy it.Today Mother has been cleaning my room. I went to take a Music lkesson.Today I could not go to that party, as I did not get through my lessons in time,
                    and Mother said that I could not go if I did not get through in time.This P. M. Mary Gredig came to see Marie. Today I began my lessons at half past 7
                    o clock.Friday May 19thThis morning I did not get up till after 6 o clock, I am going to do better in
                    the morning, I have to sleep in Mothers old room as my room is not fixed.
                    Yesterday evening I fixed my play box, up in the garret.This noon it just poured down rain. This morning it was very foggy.I went to market, I got 10 lbs. of beef. Today a man brought us some dryed
                    apples, they are the nicest I ever seen, I think.Mother has been looking over Mothers old thing , and in those was some of
                    Emma's old handkerchiefs, she gave them to me. Yesterday evening Emeal
                    Sharans came to bring Father a note.Saturday May 20.This morning I got up 5 minutes before five , I told you I was going to get up
                    earlier than I did yesterday morning. Yesterday evening Mother got through
                    fixing my room, she took the sewing machine out and put one of Mrs. Richardsons
                    in its stead, there are four drawers in it that I can have, two small ones and
                    two large ones, the large drawers have got my Summer and winter clothes in
                    them,one of the small ones is to keep my brush and comb in, the other to keep my
                    colars and and several other things in, on the top of, theI keep my books, I am fixed up like gentleman, that's whats the matter. I do
                    not know how I can thank Mother for it, but I expect the only way I can will be
                    to get my lessons good and be a good boy. This morning it was very foggy when I
                    got up.Sunday May 21This morning Mother and I went to church , and before church I went to sunday
                    school , Mr. Gardenner has come back and took our class, I just love him; This
                    morning I watered the horse before breakfast.This evening there was church again, O, I for-got to say this mornthe Ramsey family were at church, the girls were but Mrs. Ramsey was not.Today Mrs. Gredig came to see Marie. This evening it rained.This morning Mother and I staied to communion, Bill Reese was there. Today I said
                    22 Salmes, all the verses I have learnt sence Mor- came from Cincinnati.Monday May 22.it has been a very pleasant but warm day, it has cleared off, and I think that it
                    is going to be pleasant, any way for two or three days.Today Mother has been washing the clothes. Mother had to sun some old clothes, I
                    helped her. Today when I went to take a music lessons, Mother let me stay till 4
                    o clock, but generally I donot stay till three o clock, and as I was all through
                    my work she let me staywith the girls, I had a nice time, Ella and Mary Frank were just going to take a
                    ride, John Henry went with them, if we only had a horse, Mother and I would ride
                    before breakfast from 5 till seven, but "if" is in the way. This
                    evening Father had to go out in the country 6 miles.Tuesday May 23It has been a very pleasant warm day. Today I did not get through my lessons till
                    very late. Yesterday evening I was walking on the laders, I sprained my side
                    awfully, it has been hurting me all day, and more this P.M. this A.M. I rubed it
                    with campher, that helped it a good deal for a while.The other day a man brought us some potatoes and some peas, Father knew that we
                    had the potatoes, as we had them for dinner, yesterdaybut he did not know that we had the peas, so to day it took him by supprise when
                    he saw them on the table.This evening Mrs. Whitman came to see Mother and Mrs. Reeve, Mrs. Reeve was not
                    in, but while Mrs. Whitman was talking to Mother, she came.Wednesday May 24th/65It has been a very pleasant day. This morning Mrs. Eugster came to see Mother.
                    Today Mother has been cleaning out the back chamber, I expect she found it
                    pretty dirty. The last time I went to take a music lesson I took a piece named
                    "The moonlight on the Ocean". it is very pretty but very hard.Yesterday evening I got a barrel and put the chips into it that were out in the
                    yard, while I was doing that Mother hoad some of the weeds up inthe little flower bed. This P.M. Father had to go in the country, he did not get
                    back till just a little while ago.Yesterday Mr. Heald bought Mrs. H. some strawberries. Today we had pies for
                    dinner, I tell you they were good.Thursday May 25th/64.Yesterday evening Mother got through cleaning out the back chamber, Father and
                    she carried the dinning room stove up. there, it makes the dinning room look a
                    great deal better. There was some corn up in the back chamber, I had to pick it
                    over, and that that the rats had shelled I put it in a barrel to be growned for
                    the cow, that that was not shelled, I put into another barrel, so that I can
                    shell it, we are going to have it all growned for the cow.To day Mother and Father was going in the country, but as it rained they did not
                    go. Today I took a music lesson, I took some more of "The moon-light on the
                    ocean".Today Mother said that I must write some German in my journal every day, I am
                    going to begin to day, if I make any mistakes you must correct me (that is if
                    you can read it)sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday May 26This morning a gentleman came to see Fathers law books, I expect he wants to buy
                    them, I will be glad if he does, for they have been in mothers way ever
                    senceFather bought them. Yesterday Mother worked hard enough to go to bed and stay
                    there till next winter, though that is pretty long, she put some green paper up
                    on the window by the front door, put down the carpet on the stairs cleaned out
                    the press in the hall, washed of all of the paint in both halls, and 50 other
                    little things, before I would work that way "I would go up spout." Now
                    for the German,sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday May 27 /65I got up this morning 15 minutes before five and went to market, I got 5 pounds
                    of stake and 5 pounds of roast, I which I could have taken 2 miles walk instead
                    of just up to market, because it was so pleasant waking, when I came backI cleaned my horse and my shoes.This A.M. Miss Rosa Treigg came to see Mrs. Reeve. Today old Mrs. Hume came to
                    see Mother and Mrs. Reeve, she stayed a good while. Today I have not been well.
                    I had the head-ache and the diarrhea. I had to take some of the awfullest
                    medicine I ever heard of (with the exception of caster oil). This evening I made
                    a marble bag. This evening Johanna came to see Mother.sentence of grammar practice in German(I was a pleasant day. Today I was a good boy, but Mother says I was long, do you
                    think so?) I don't I'm sure.Sunday May 28thThis morning I went to sunday school, after I got back Mother and I went to
                    church, it was well filled, this evening there was church again. I did not go.
                    This morning I watered the horse before breakfast, it was pleasant riding. This
                    evening I went to singing school, we have the nicest time ever was up there
                    singing, my sunday school teacher plays the maloadian and Mr. Spence leads the singing. This P.M.
                    Mrs. Heald and Mother went out to the grave yard with Mrs. Sanford.sentence of grammar practice in GermanIt was a warm day, but Mothers says not very.Monday May 29th.Today I had to go to the blacksmith shop to get the horse shod. I did not
                    haveto water him as Father had to go away, with him. Last night we got a letter from
                    Emma. Today I had to go and take a music lesson. I took some more of "Moon
                    light on to ocean." I do not have to take a music Thursday, as it is fast
                    day.Today Mother has been washing the clothes, she got up a long time before I did,
                    and be-gan her washing, she gets through 5 times earlyerthan Molly ever did.
                    Today I went up to Mrs. Smith to take some paper for Mother.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday May 30th/65It has been a very pleasant day. Yesterday evening I was not a very good boy, so
                    at night Mother sent me to bed earley. To day I got through my lessonsin good time. Today Mother said if I am a good boy she will give me day holiday
                    on Thursday This morning and this noon I had to take the horse to water. I had a
                    good ride both times. Father was thinking of buying a horse today, a man had a
                    horse to sell, and he let Father try how he liked him, but he did not like him,
                    it was very pretty, but for some reason or other he did not buy him.Today Miss Margret and Miss Virginia White came to see Mrs. Reeve.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday May 31.Today is the last day of spring. Today Johanna has been here helping Mother clean
                    out the office and theNursery all day nearly.Yesterday I went down to the postoffice to take a letter for Father. Father got a
                    letter from his sisters husband, he sent me some very choice flowers pressed, he
                    has put the name all down , so that I can tell what they are. I am going to get
                    a piece of glass cut, that will just fit it, and Mother is going to paist it on
                    some way so that I can hang it up. This morning I took the horse to water, I
                    expect I will have to this evening.Last night Father was very sick, and he has not been well all day. I hope he will
                    be better by tomorrow. Mother did not think he could get up to day.sentence of grammar practice in German(I was a pleasant day. I was very well to day, but I think I will be by
                    tomorrow.)Thursday June 1st/65It has been a very pleasant day. Today was fastday. This morning I went to
                    church, Mother did not go, Gen. Stoneman was there and his staff, Col. Gibson
                    and his staff, they all sat together, the church was crowded. I had to set in
                    the lowest sets. They have been firing cannon all day, they began about 4 o clock this morning.This morning Mr. Wohlwend came to see what was the matter with our cow, yesterday
                    evening when I let her in its tongus hung out and it had lost a great deal of
                    flesh, but he could not tell what was the matter, Mr. Day came to see if he
                    could tell but he could not.Johanna has been helping Mother clean up the dining room all day.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday June 2nd.Yesterday evening Father had a little pony up here, it belongs to Mr. Chilres,
                    Father I expect is going to buy it for Mother and myself, it is the prettiest
                    little thing ever I saw, it is a kind of a very dark sorrel, it is only 3 years
                    old it has not shed all of its first yet, it is saddle and bridle brok, but the
                    only objection Father has to it, is that it has no gate, but he likes it every
                    other way,Yesterday evening Father had to go and visit a pacient, he let me go with him, as
                    he wanted to try the pony, Father let me ride our horse, when we came home I
                    took the horse home. Father told me to tell the man, that he would let him know
                    whether he buy it or not to day, I don't know Father said, but I hop he
                    will say yes.Yesterday eveningMr. and Mrs. George Smith came to see Mother. Johanna has been here helping
                    Mother work all day.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday June 3th.This evening Mother and I are going to the country, I expectThis morning I took the horse to water, and I just have been to water him
                    again.Yesterday Father did not tell the man that he would by the pony. Father says that
                    he wants to look at other horses first, and if he does not like another horse
                    better than he does this, he will buy the pony, I hope he will buy it, it is the
                    prettiest little thing ever I saw.This morning I went to market, I got 11 lbs. and a half of beef, and a bottle
                    full of gall. Yesterday evening Capt. Thomas was here, for supper.sentence of grammar practice in Germanhow jufar worrm.Sunday June 4th / 65I am now writting my Journal out at Mr. Beauzigers, he has bought a new house and
                    farm, it is a very pleas-ant place, close to the river, Mother did not come I am
                    very sorry, because she we would have
                    had a nice time, she did not not go
                    because, Father thought she ought not to ride in a wagon, yesterday I went to
                    Mr. Wohlwends to take the satchel, as John had the wagon there, after I got here
                    John and I got here went down to the
                    spring and got right in, I tell you we were dirty, I was as happy and as sleepy
                    as a - don't know what. I slept in the same ^bed I always sleep in when I
                    come down in the country, Mr. B. and all of the boys slept in the same room, up
                    in an attic, but not in thesame bed, I got up at day brake with the boys, they have got a splendid spring
                    house, after I came from the spring, Jack cut some grafs and I took the wheel-barrow, and took it down to
                    the hags, right after breakfast,
                    we sang till Sunday school time. I went with the boys, they have got a splendid
                    place, it is at the old Sunday school place, Mr. Guttentanner is school- master, his son plays ^in the moaloadion melodian, they did not do any thing but sing,
                    but they teach the notes there, and make us sing by notes, he would make the
                    boys that new the notes teach the ones that did not. I know a great many of the
                    notes. John learnt them to me.
                    This evening they went over to Mr. Weishoufts to babtize the baby. John went
                    after them about 3 o clock, after he had left it raised a little, Mrs. Beauziger
                    sent Jack and I with um- brellas for them, but did not I catch up with them, John had taken the people andwas a-way with them, so John Jack and I
                    went after a hog that had gone a-stray but could not find it, I will stop my
                    Journal for today, so good by.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday June 5.entire entry written in Germanentire entry written in GermanP.S. Mrs. Baeuziger said I had to write todays Journal in German.Tuesday June 6th / 65Yesterday Mr. Wohlwentd came, he has been
                    working in the shugar cane patch all
                    day. This morning Will. Clem and I were going rass berry picking, but when I was
                    ready to go he said he had to plow so I set out alone. Mr. Taylor told ^me to go
                    in the big road but to go in a lit- tle path, I did it, but I lost my way, I was
                    first going up to Mr.Prices to get John to go with me, but as I lost my way I thought I would try the
                    big ro^ade just for ^an experiment, and
                    I found at last it was the right ro^ade,
                    I asked Mr. Price where John was, he told me out in the field, but he would be
                    back soon, so I waited, when he came Mr. P. told me I had bet- ter ask Mr.
                        Bean f before I f picked them, so I went up there
                    and asked thim, but he said No; no; he
                    wanted to take them to town tomorrow and sell them, so Mr. Price said as I was
                    cheated out of the berries, he would give me a buck- et full of cherries. Today
                    John and co Conrard have been plowing, and yesterday I tried to plow, I
                    plowed nearly a whole furrow of corn up. Today Mrs. Baeuziger taught me some
                    more notes.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday June 7This morning I went with where the boys
                    were moarng clover, after I came
                    back I played with Mr. Tay- lor's children, then I went down to Mr. Taylors
                    garden he was planting potatoes I ate just as many ransberries as I dared to. Then I learnt my virses,
                    after I got through saying them to Mrs. Baeu- ziger she told me about when they
                    burnt Ataubs house, and about the sol- diers that robbed her meat, about that about that thime, it was time to set the table, I set
                    it. This evening Jack had to go over to Mr. Whiteheads to take some thing, he
                    took a bucket, and as we were comming back we picked it full of dewberries. This
                    evening the boys went in swimming.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday June 8.Yesteday evening I went hunt- ting, but did no get any thing, this morn- ing I
                    went again, I saw a squirel ten steps from three hares I fored at it, it I hit it some wares wheres but did not kill it, it left a pleanty of blodd blood behind it, but I did not want
                    the sqirrel blodd I wanted the squirrel,
                    and after I wan- der about in the woods a while I found anothe one, but did not
                    hit it.This evening I went down to Mr. Talors garden and he gave me as many rassberries and raddishes as I could
                    eat.Today John plowed the land next to the spring. Mrs. Baeuziger is making so^ape she is not through yet. Today we ate
                    the dewberries that Jack and I picked.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday June 9thToday I went huntin but in vain, I did not see any thing to shoot at. Last night
                    it just pour- ed down rain, Conrad had to get up in the night and bring up some
                    milk that was down in the spring house. This morning John has been fix- ing a
                    beam to a plow, and Mr. Taylor a snath to a mowing cradle
                    blad. This P.M. John has been plowing. Tomorrow I am going home, John has been is going to take me a part of
                    the way, and I am going to walk the rest, or may may be Will go walk
                    all of the way, if he cannot plow tomorrow.Mrs. Baeuziger has been making so^ape.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday June 10.This morning I came home, John brought me as far as between the two Arm- strongs,
                    I had to go around by Johanna's to take a note for Mrs. Baeuziger, I was so
                    glad to get home, Mother said that I was a dirty as a pig, so I took the bath-
                    ing pan, and gave myself a good scrub- bing, after I got through my washing I
                    took my shoes to the shoemaker shop to be mended, after I get through writing my
                    Journal, I am going after them.This morning before I left John shot a squirrel. I had to go to the store for
                    Father, I had to wait a good while till Mr. Stephanson came.The Col. and his wife are going to start for Greenville tomorrow they wo^uld have
                        w went yesterday, but were too late,
                    they are not going to stay here any longer. sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday June 11.It has been a very pleasant Sun- day, but very warm. This morning Father started
                    in the country about 4 oclock, he got back not long after 10, Mother and I were
                    at church, and when we came home we found him on the bed sick he has no been up
                    hard ly any since. This morning the Col. and his wife started for
                    Greensville.This evening Mr. Humes enti^cized
                    the children on the 2nd chaper of the 1st book of Samuel. This P. M. at half
                    just 4 there is going to be church.This morning I got up at half past 4 oclock. Today old crazy Dave came here, I
                    don't know what he had to say. sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday June 12thToday Mother has been washing clothes after she had them all hung out it be- gan
                    to sprinkle, so she had to take them in again. Today Mr. Britt came to pain
                    again, he has been sick, he has got another man to help him, they have been
                    fixing the office so they could paint. Today I took the a music lesson, it is the first one I have taken, sence
                    last Thursday a week ago, I saw Mrs. Wicks yesterday, she said she was com- ming
                    around to see if I was sick.Father has been a good deal better but not ien-tirely well. This morning Mary Gredig came to see Marie.I did not get through my lessons till late.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday June 13thToday Mrs. Baeuziger brought in cherries to sell, Mother took 4 gallons, to day
                    at dinner we had some.This morning I took the horse to water, I had a nice ride. Today Mother has been
                    ironing. Mother took the things out of the nursary so that the painters could go
                    in to paint, they are in there now. I did not get through my lessons till late.
                    This evening Moth- er and Mrs. Heuld have been picking over the berries that
                    Mrs. Baeuziger brought. To day Mr a
                    gentleman named Mr. Bishop was here for dinnerWe had a chicken for dinner to day it was good I "tell you."Last night Father got a letter from Emma.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednes day June 14This morning I took the horse to water, I had a nice ride.Last night a bug flew into Fath- ers eyes, he said that he though ^it would put his eye out for a moment, to day
                    it has been paining him awfully, he had to have it tied up all day, I hope he
                    will get over it soon.Last night Father and Mother had to sleep up stairs as they are paint- ing in the
                    nursery. Mother has not been well at all to day, she ate some cherries yesterday
                    she thinks it is that, that made her sick. Last night we got a letter from Emma.
                    I got through my lessons earlier than I did yesterday.This morning Mrs. Dr. Rodgers came to see Mother. sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday June 15thIt has very warm but pleasant day.Today I did not get through my lessons till late. This mornin I ^did not
                        watered the horse as it was
                    showering. Today I took a music lesson, Mrs. Wicks was not at home so I waited,
                    while I was waitting Aquefs told me that the cars ran over Mr. Coopers cow, it
                    broke its two fore legs, she said that a man came up there and told her day
                    before yesterday. Mr. Cooper went right down, and as it was in such distress he
                    got the butcher to go and kill it, it was a cow like ours. Today I saw Willie
                        B Rober they came back two or three
                    weeks ago.Johnna came to see Mother.Fathers eye looks better out side, but is more inflamed. ^inside Yesterday and to
                    day Father dictated a letter to me to right rite to Sister for him.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday June 16thYesterday evening I went down to the post office to take a letter from for Father, after I came back Mother
                    let me go down to see Sammie Morrow, we had a splendid time we went up to see
                    the soldiers drill, after we came back we ran racies. Today I got through my
                    lessons in pretty good time.This morning I took the horse to water. I had a good ride.Yesterday Mrs. Gredig came to see Marie. Today Mr. Sanford came to see Father.
                    This evening Mother and I are going riding, Mother is going to ride Fathers
                    horse and I Mr. Chilreses pony,
                    won't we have bullie
                    times.Mr. Heald gave Mrs. Heald a nice money purse. andsentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday June 17.Yesterday evening Mother and I went riding, Mother took Fathers horse and I Mr.
                        ChildersChilves little pony, we went as
                    far a Boyds ferry, that is four miles, we just ran the horses, as we were coming
                    home we stopped at Mr. Jacksons, Mrs. Schlaph- fer gave us some icewater I tell
                    ou it was more than good, we did not get down, I did, to open the gate but
                    Mother did not not, as we was comming
                    home we thought it would rain cirtainly, it did not, I asked Mothe what time it
                    was, she said it is not late, when we got home it was 8 oclock, I was a hungry
                    as a bear, I ate my supper and then I took Mr. Chil- lves horse home, and by the time I came back it was
                    nearly 9 oclock. Today I got through my lessons in good time, This evening
                    Mother and I were going ^to ride again, but I think it is to late now.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday JuneSunday June 18.This morning I went to sunday school, after I came home we went to church, Mrs.
                    Heald went with us to day, Mr. Humes did not preach the sermon this A.M. a
                    chaplan in the a^rmy preached his name is Mr. Bo- man, it is the gentleman that
                    told Col. Jim. Brownlow and Tom. Rodgers to behave themselves, I like him first
                    rate. This morning I watered the horse before breakfast. To day Mrs. Eng- ster and Johanna came to see
                    Moth- er. This evening there was church again I went, I donot beleive there
                        wase a dozen persons in all. This
                    evening I expect I will have o water the horse.Tomorrow there is going to be a carcus, J
                    Sammie Morrow is going.sentence of grammar practice in Germansentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday June 19th/65This morning Father baught a horse it is not the pony, it is a h large horse, and well built. and just
                    as fat as a butter ball, his colar is a chestnut-sorrel, the only trouble with
                    him is that he is a little too old, he is a little over 9 years old but his age
                    will not hurt him for two or three years yet, today at noon I took him to water,
                    I like him first rate.Today Mother got up at 4 oclock and got through her washing long before dinner.
                    To day Mrs. Chimworth came to
                    see Father. To day I shelled a half bushle of corn, I am going to shell a half
                    bushle every day till I get a bag full.Today I book took a music lessonsentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday June 20.This morning I cleaned the new horse for the first time, and after breakfast I
                    took him to water. Today I took went to
                    a sow that came in Sunday night, I think they call it Dans. show, Father and I
                    went, I liked it first rate, they had a little mule and they told ay of the
                    spectators to to see if they could ride it, one tale soldier said that he could ride it, down him to try, so he came but as
                    soon a he got near the mule would kick at him, but after while the clown made
                    the mule let the man get close to him, and as the man would try to get on the
                    mule would jump and thrown him off, and
                    the mule would bounce right after him, two negroes said they would try to do it
                    but the mule would treat them the same way it was splendid, as I was going I
                    found a little parisall I brought it home, and after I had been homea little while a gentleman named Mr. Wadal came after it. sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday June 21.Yesterday evening Father and Mother went riding. This morning they went a great
                    deal further, they started a bout half past 5 ^oclock and got back at 11, I got
                    up at 10 minutes after for and fixed
                        them horses, and after I got through
                    I was as hungry as a bear, so Mother said I might have something to eat, and I
                    ate so much that I could not eat any thing when breakfast was ready. Yester-day
                    Father baught a new bridle for the new horse, he bought a pa^ire of martingales he gave of 2 for the mar- tingales, and 8 and
                    a half for the bride, but it is a nice one I tell you.I got through my lessons in pretty good time. Yesterday Father baughtsome ice I tell you it was good in water. This evening Mrs. Heald has gone
                    calling.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday June 22It has been a pleasant day.Today I watered the horses before din-
                        ner breakfast, it was very pleasant riding.Today I took a music lesson, It took the rest of the Clava walzer.Yesterday evening the cow did not ome ill late, I took the horse and went afer
                    her but could not find her - but when I got home I found that she had ot into
                    lot and eating rass.This P. M. Ella Lock came to sea Mother. Mother and Father both are going to take
                    a ride this evening.To-morrow Mother is going to lot
                    me study nex days lessons in thewoods I am going to take the horses to pas- ture, won't I have fun. The
                    painters have been paining the out side of the house.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday June 23.It has been a very pleasant day. To day I watered the horses fef before breakfast. I am going to do it
                    all of the time now, this morning I took both horses a once. Yesterday Mother
                    and took a ride they got back just as the clock was strik ing 8. I did not get
                    through my lessons till late, I did not get through todays till late, but I got
                    through studing tomr- rows in good time. Today Johanna came to see Mother.
                    Mother has been putting down to office carpet this evening.It is now raining if ^it wasnot I was going to take Grant (as that is the new
                    horsesname) out to pasture, I was going out to the old A^rmstrongs clover field it is
                    not fenced in now, it may stop raining before long I hope it will.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday June 24.Yesterday evening it stoped just after I got through righting writing my Journal, so I took Grant to pasture, I
                    did not go to the Armstrong field as I expect- ed, Father said some soldiers had
                    camped out there, so I went across the bridge up the river, the next time I go I
                    want to take both horses, I won't have to hold them at all, a sugre told me to tie the hatter to
                    one of his legsso that he cannot run. I laid down on the grass and read a news
                        papert that I brought with me, I
                    read about an elephant, his name was Hana^nible, I had not finishedthe story yet. Today Mother has been fixing the porlor and the office.Yesterday I tied the calf out in the fraont yard so it could get some grass.Mrs. Heald is going to have our of old
                        hung up in her room, Mrs H. bought some cloth and Mrs. Heald is
                    going to cover it.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday June 245This morning it began to pour down rain, and did not stop till about half past 7
                    or 6. This morning I went to Sunday school and there to church, there were a very few there on account of it being
                    so muddy, Mother did not go. Today I said 28 Psalms off by heart. I was not
                    quite an hour say- ing them, after I go tthrough saying them, Father had to go 5
                    miles in the country. Mother let me take Grant, and I went with him, he had to
                    go a milefurther than the ferrey, I tell you we had a nice ride, but ^I am prety
                    tired.Today I got nearly hrough reading a book the name of it is Meliville, I like it
                    first rate. It was a pleas ant day but very woren, to be sure it rained this morning but and this evening it rained, but was
                    pleas ant the rest of the time.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday June 26To day I shelled a bushle and a little over of corn, I am going to shell another
                    bay full by next week, Mother was not ^buys washing the clothes and while she was re^aching them out I would see
                    how many ears I could shell till I she
                    got through, some times she beat me, I some times I beat her, it was fun
                        I till yeu. Today I took a
                    music lesson, I did not take any new piece.Last night we got a letter from Emma. I do not know what she she said.After I got through writing my Journal, I am going to take the horses to pasture,
                    I am going to finish the book I nearly got through with yesterday, after I get
                    through reading that, I am going to read the life of Rodger Williams.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday June 27thIt has been a very pleasant day.This morning I had to go to market to get some meat that Father engaged, he got 2
                    dollars and 40 cents worth.Yesterday I took both horses to pasture and both got away from me, the Billy (as that is the old hoses name)
                    heard a bell ring, I think it was a cow bell, for I heard it myself, that scart scared him, he gave a ju^mp and
                    broke th ehatter and away hewent, and Grant thought that he would follow his example, they both ran away as
                    fast as they could, a boy met them and caught them and brought them to say me, I finished reading my book, it
                    was a splendid one I tell you. I expect it is to late to go this even- ing, for
                    I did not get through my lessons till late, I am going to do better
                    tomorrow.sentence of grammar practice in GermanT Wednesday June 28This morning it was very pleasant riding. Yesterday evening Father and Mo- ther,
                    Mr. Sanford and Mrs. Heald went riding, Mother and Father started before they
                    did, all four went across the river but Father one way and Mr. Sanford another
                    way, Mother and Father did not get back till eight oclock, the other folks
                    gotback before, Mrs. H. was very tired, Mother just amoment ago started off horse
                    back riding a- gain with Father, they have gone the same place Father and I went
                    Sunday.This morning Mother baught 20 lbs. of ice, she made ice cream out of it, I tell
                    you it was good, I helped turn the freezer I expect that made it better, I
                    don't expect, I know. Yesterday I shelled half a bushle of corn Marie
                    helped me.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday June 29It has been an exceedingly warm day. Yesterday I had gone to bed when Mother and
                    Father came home, Mother said she never had a ple^asenter ride in her life.Yesterday evening I shelled half a bushle of corn. Today I took a music lesson. I
                    did not take any / thing new.To day I got through my lessons in pretty good time, This morning it was verypleasant riding. This evening I expect Mother and Father are going to take a
                    ride, I expect Mother will get tired of riding pretty soon.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday June 29 30.Yesterday evening Mother did not go wriding I went enstead, Father had to go out in the country 5 miles, we
                    had a very pleasant ride we did not start till 20 minues to eight 6, and did not get back till way
                    after 8, I was very tired, when I go home, and hungry twoo as a bean bear,
                    after I ate my supper I went right strai^ght to bed, Mrs. Cooper was here about
                    the time I went to bed. To day I got through my lessons in good time. I have not
                    been fealing well to day, but I till think I will be better by tomorrow. Mr.
                    Brit has not been painting to day I do not know why, but theother man has, To day I picked out 3 good books othe out to read when I take the horse to pasture.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday June 30 July 1Last evening I took the horse to water, and just as I got as far as Mrs.
                    Boyd's it began to just pour down rain I had a very thin coat on, and got
                    wet all through from head to my big tow, I sent right to bed.The Yesterday Father said he had o go in
                    the country today, he proposed to take Mother, but as it rained she could not
                    go, Father ^he had to. To day I got
                    through my lessons in prety good time.Father has not been very well.I did not have to water the horseas it was so muddy. It has been a dark gloomy day. The painters could not paint
                    as it rained.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday July 2ndThis morning I went to Sunday school and to church, there were a great many
                    there, Mary Brownlow, Deulia
                    Baxter and Pate, were there,
                    Mother says she thinks Mary Brownlow looks a little like Emma.Yesterday evening Father went to bed at six ^half past 7 oclock, because he was sick, he had to get up at 11
                    in the night, and at two and five in the morning.Today I have been fea^eling a great deal
                    better than I did yesterday. About an hour ago Father called me to the
                    windowand asked me if I wanted to go in the country with him, I just now got back, we
                    had a splendid ride, we went over to Mr. Brown's. This evening there was
                    church again I did not go.I water^ed the horses before break- fast, I took both at one time.Today I said 29 Salms Psalms off by
                    heart.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday July 3th 1665This morning I ot got up before five and
                    fed the horses as Father had to go in the country, Mother said that I may go, so
                    I fixed Grant too, we started about 5 oclock, and got out there by 7, we went to
                    Mr. Chinniworth's we had a
                    spendid ride, we got to town at about ha^lf past 9. Mother says she thinks she will we madethe trip pretty quick. I would like to take a ride as far as that every day,
                    Father says he thinks 8 miles is a little to far.Tomorrow is the 4 of July, he day that inderpendence was declared, outs Sunday school is going
                    to have a picknick up the country, they are go- ing ^on the cars, they are going
                    to start at half after of 7
                    oclock. Today I took a music lesson. Mr. Heald sent for a side-saddle it came to
                    day, it is a perfect buty beauty.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday July 4thThis morning I went to the picknick, we met at the church at half past 7 oclock,
                    at about eight we started to the railroad, we went up the country about three or
                    four miles, we had asplendid place, we had three swings, and there was a splendid spring, we plaied a
                    great many plays, among which, were, Black man; base, drop the handkerchief; tap
                    the sho^uld- er; Queen Dido's death; and a great many other plays, we had
                    eating stuff by the bushles we
                    went black-baerry picking, and
                        just ^had a cutting up in general," nearly every boddy had fire crack- ers, I did not, they
                    had a large balone baloon out there, but
                    just as they were going to send it up, by accident it caught on fire. And next
                    time we go to a pick- nick, I would like diff^erent cars from box- cars and ^that were as dirty as pig pens, I
                    do- not feel like going to another one very soon, any way. This evening Mr.
                    Heald has bought some fire crackers for him and I to ch crack. Yesterday evening Sam. Simcock got through making a little
                    cannon for me, I never saw a prettier cannon in all of my life, it is fixed on a
                    seal standard, and there is ranrod andswoab to it. Mother says that while I was gone they had a picknick down the river
                    some where, an ambulance with Ella Luck and her aunt turned over they both were
                    hurt badly. I could have said a great deal more if I could have been at the
                    picknick and at home too.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday July 5thYesterday evening Mr. Heald gave me three packs of firecrackers , I have already
                    shot up one pack. I was out on the pavemant when I saw a boy with a false face
                    on. I could tell from his clothes that it was Jim., Ebzy, just then Sam. Rodgers
                    came along with fire crackers, Sam and I gave it to Jim. Ebzy like fifty, and he
                    ran like forty.Last night after I went to bed they sent up sky-rockets and had fireworks.I did not get through my lessons till late. Today I practiced an hour with - out
                    coming out, an't I getting smart.This evening I am going to take the horses to pasture, I hope they will not get
                    away from me again, as they did before.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday July 6th/65This morning at half past 4 o clock Mother and Father started for the country
                    they went out to Mr. Chinneworths and to Mr. Bishops that is nine miles and got
                    back before ten I think they made the trip pretty quick , Mother was not as
                    tired as I was when I went.Yesterday evening Mrs. & Mr. Heald went horsebackriding they got back just as
                    Iwas going to bed, the went to see the fire works but just as they got there they
                    found there was not going to be any.To day I took a music lesson, I took a part of a piece named "The
                    Shadow." Mr. Wicks says it is very pretty.Yesterday Mrs. Plumlee came to see Mrs. Heald. Yesterday evening I took the
                    horsesd to the blacksmith shop to be shod, and down town to get a spool of
                    thread and a binding for a dress.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday July 7th 1865I think to day was the hotest day we had this year, I beleive if I should lay a
                    potato in the sun it would roast.Today Father started for the country at half past 5 o clock , he rode Grant.Yesterday evening I took the horsesto water. This morning I went to market and got 3 stakes of meat. it cost 85
                    cents.Today the painter has been oiling the blinds after they get dry his is going to
                    put a coat of paint on. Today Father has not been well a atall. I hope he will
                    be by tomorrow. This evening the man came after the corn to take to the mill, to
                    be grownd. This morning I went to the post office there was no letter. I did not
                    get through till late.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMrs. Healds wash woman came to see her. I got up at 15 minutes after 4 o clock. I
                    went to the Drugstore to tell Mr. Heald to tell Harry to come with his wagon
                    after the corn. I know 30 Psalms off by heart I am going to say them sunday.We had cucumbers out of our own garden for dinner.Today I did not write my Journal good , so Catharine mademe right more. Mother got a note from her sister. When the man came to take the
                    corn I did not tie the corn good, as he was trying to put it in the wagon, he
                    spilled half of it.Saturday July 8th/65I am now writing my Journal, for the last time it the book that Mr. Heald gave me
                    when Mother was at Cincinnati.Yesterday evening the cow did not come home , I took Grant and went after her,
                    but could not find her, this morning about 5 I went after her again, I could not
                    find her and about half past 5 o clock I came home to see she had not come
                    herself, but she had not. Mother gave me something to eat and I went back but
                    not in the same place, I met Mr. Monday he told me that he though he saw my cow
                    over South-East from Powels horse, I went over there, and, Behold;; there she
                    was.This morning at 10 minutes before clock I got up and curred Grant as Fath had to go in the country with
                    him.Today Marie said that her neffew Abe. Gredig had got back , last night.Today I went down to tell Mr. Jones to come and fix one of our blinds.I did not get through till late.The man brought the meal.sentence of grammar practice in German