Page 1

Major Francis A Ramsey Green County N. Carolina To the particular care of Cor. Arthur Campbell Washington County Virginia

Page 2

Pennsylvania February 23rd 1790 Kindest of Men Ms. Rowan has very obligingly called this evening to give me an opportunity of writing to you by Mr. Ewen , and with pleasure I have left our sweet family below, and come upstairs to converse with you in this manner - This day five weeks you left me, and after our Fathers return I received no intelligence from you untill the 19th of this month, when I received a letter by the hand of Mr. McGinley wrote at Mr. Campbells: The letters you mention probably have been miscarried between Stanton and Winchester, as they were at neither of the places as McGinley came in; I had an opportunity of sending a letter as far as Winchester some weeks ago; and if it has not yet reached you, it probably will be conveyed with this, as I have requested Mr. Ewen to enquire for it. - My Dear Husband I expect you will receive this on your way home. Oh the enrapturing thought to hope you are returning to your dearest friends whose arms are open to receive you, never I hope to be so long, or so distantly separated in this world. - Your letters are both near me, it would be a fruitless attempt to pretend to describe my feelings when I received your last. I am quite reconciled, and as cheerfull as I possible can be.

Page 3

I would do injustice to your character to suppose you were not verry happy in the instructive company of Mr. Campbell. I received your congratulations about our new Brother, we had heard of the connection from our friends below. - We report of your competitors Death I do not rejoice in, altho it may prevent disputes, by character I am afraid he was ill prepared for his important charge - I hope I am gratefull for the restoration of your health, and promise my self to have mine confirmed when I shall have the pleasure of living with you in that Western World Ms Manstons compliments were verry acceptable, and with you to return them if you have an opportunity. Last week and this have been important to you, you have been surrounded with temptations, every where courting your attentions; but I trust Providence will gaurd you, and enable you to resist them all. Oh Mr. Ramsey this is a gloomy season, all nature dead, not the smallest appearance of vegative life, the Birds have forsaken us, nothing but the melancholy murmur of the creek to salute our Ears when we walk out for recreation The following text is from the post script on the fourth page of the letter. M J Alexander to the Hon. Major Ramsey The preceding text is from the post script on the fourth page of the letter.

Page 4

My dear companion what more shall I say to you? or how break at talking with you, Oh cruel necessity you have obliged me often to yield when I otherwise would not, and then still art arbitrary. I must leave you in the hands of Providence, and compose myself for sleep Adieu my dearest Self - 24th Good morning Sir I hope you have arose in good Health, and had you as direct an opportunity of writing to me, as I have to you, I know you would be happy. I scarcely expect to hear from you untill I see you, anxious as I am for your return, I do not wish you to fatague yourself too much in returning. - Our Honored Parents wishes you to receive their paternal affection hope would have wrote but complains of a headache we have enjoyed good health since you left us living chiefly at home nothing unremarkable I believe has happened since you left us. My Dear Husband we must finish this conversation , and conclude. May Providence hover arround you guard, guide and protect you from accidents and you to the arms and of your loving companion Peggy A. Ramsey My Dear Brother, Sister has given me the liberty of of writing a Post-cript in her letter do not blame me for not writing a letter myself it was not for want of inclination I assure you the time that you expected to be abscent is now half gone and the other half will soon unround We please our selves with the prospect of an early Spring to return you to us & then to carry us all home to Carolina - My paper you see is limited I have much to say but will conclude with wishing you a happy return your truly affectionate

