Page 1

Dr. J.G.M. Ramsey Knoxville, Tenn.

Page 2

Ivy Cottage, Sept. 4th 1876 Dr. J.G.M. Ramsey, Dear Sir Yout highly esteemed letter was received some days since I remember years ago to have read, with a perfect glow of ancestral pride, your History of Tennessee, in which you pass each high encomiume on the Character of Governor Sevier Tis I, with all his descendants, who should thank you, for having done so much to perpetuate the memory of one, of whom we feel so justly proud Since your letter came I have been examining the old

Page 3

letters mentioned I have read the signature & glanced over contents. I find they relate mostly to business, tho some are letters of friendship. They are nearly all addressed to my Grandfather, Walter King. Numbers written later by his sons after leaving home to seek their fortunes Few of them refer in any way to the hostory of the times in which they were written. I am happy to be able to send you two more letters of Gov. Sevier. One of them I found in my last search, the other I reserved from those sent first. I would ask if you do not think it too selfish, that one of them may be returned

Page 4

the one written his daughter prefered. My mother has often told me of a portrait of her Grandfather, of which she has a distinct recollection, thinks it was considered a good one Though she was quite young when it was last seen. the portrait was then at the house of Mrs. McClellan resident of Kingston Tenn. and daughter of Governor S. She moved after & wandered to Arkansas. Can you, sir, tell me anything of the painting? Be assured, my dear Sir, that I shall be most happy & feel myself honored if I can in any way oblige or serve you, one for whom I shall ever cherish a

Page 5

grateful remembrance I see I did not mention in the proper place that I have selected and will send you a number of the old letters Too written by Edmund P. Gaines, one by Joseph McMinn, & others which are sent more as samples, than with any hope that they will be of interest to you. Have been thinking to hear of someone visiting Knoxville from this vicinity who would take charge of the pacel & deliver safely, but several days may pass before such an opportunity offers Will interest this to the mail in order to assure you that your request has not been neglected Very sincerely yours Sallie Kirkpatrick

