Page 1

Nov 2nd 1863 Miss Sarah J. Probert Pittsfield Swain Co Ohio

Page 2

Knoxville Tennessee Nov 2ond/63 My own dear Sarah As I sit down this afternoon to write you a few lines, I hardly think that I shall have time to finish it before some one will want me to go to work again at something or other. I calculated to have written you a letter yesterday but I had so many to write that I did not get to it. in the first place I thought I would answer all the boys letters first and then take plenty of time to answer yours. but I did not have the time to do it all. and the first thing this morning I was detailed to help put up a cabin for the Capt. have worked all the forenoon and have eaten my dinner, and now I am going to see if I can have time enough to write to you. I had ought to have written to you before this, and should have done so if I had not been at work about all the time for the last two weeks. we have had to put up a stable for our horses and since we have got that as near done as we can till we get some lumber, we have been putting up houses for ourselves, and have got them most all done. they have all been put up 10 x 12 feet on the outside, but ours, and 4 men in each one. the one I live in is about 6 x 12 on the inside, and the logs

Page 3

put up 6 feet high and our tents put on top for a roof. our bunks are about 3 feet wide and made across one end one above the other. and the door and a fireplace in the other end of the concern. our table is fastened by leather hinges to the side of the house and when we dont want to use it we can turn it up and fasten it. when we want it to eat on we have a couple of iron bars to stick in some holes in one of the logs for it to rest on, and we have got some shelves put up to put our plates and cups, and whatever else we have up out of the way. our beds are made of poles put across the hut and covered with pine and cedar boughs. quite a comfortable bed to sleep on. and now if we can only stay here for the winter I should like it first rate. it will be so much more comfortable soldiering than to be around in our tents, in the mud and wet all the time. we can do all of our cooking by our fireplace and in the evening how pleasent sitting by a bright fire. and have room to get around, with stooping down all the time. and oh so much like home and still only a mockery. how often I think of home and how it looks compared with this way of living and wish that I could happen in some evening when you were all around a good fire. perhaps talking or thinking about me, but there is no telling when I shall be able to come in on you so. maybe not till my

Page 4

my time is out, but if I dont Sarah I shall love you the same and be jest as true to you then as I was a year ago. I have got two letters now from you to answer. the one mailed on the 9th of last month I received in good time. and I see by that you have some fears about me, thinking that we might have been the fight at Carters Station. but darling we were not there nor have we been in a fight yet. for all they have been fighting considerable all around us, for the last two weeks. and I hardly think that we shall get into a fight unless they attack us with a force intending to drive us out of the state, and I dont expect they can spare force enough for that any how. and you have been down to the state fair this year I see. and no doubt had a good time of it, all but the getting wet part. but darling you did not carry back as heavy a heart this time as you did last year going home from the fair did you. I hope not any way. you say Henry and Almira are not married yet. I wonder if they ever will be. and Mrs. Campbell was very anxious to know where I was was she. well it is there own fault that they dont know. for they were very anxious to have me write to them before I left home and I promised to write if they would answer my letters, so when I was in Camp Cleveland I wrote to them, but I have never got an answer to it.

Page 5

and I have never written since. I wonder what has got into the boys at home, for so many of them to enlist. I was a good deal surprised when I heard that Al and John Davies had enlisted. and I am sorry that Al has gone and I'll bet he will be before spring. he will be put in mind of his home a great many times this winter when off on picket duty in some lonely out of the way place and perhaps in a storm besides, but I hope he will have his health and do well, and that the regiment will come this way so that I can see him. it will be a hard blow for your mother to bear up under. Sarah I would like to have you keep me posted to his whereabouts after they leave Cleveland and how he likes the service. your letter of the 19th of Oct I received the 24th and oh how glad I was to hear from you again and although I cannot hear from you as often as I did in Kentucky, I cannot forget you by any means Sarah. you will see before this reaches you that I have heard from you since I have been here, but darling, I have not had the least idea that you had forgotten me because I did not hear from you oftener. I can trust you Sarah jest as long as I live and love you to. I have put off writing to you sometimes since we have been here because I thought there was no use writing letters to lay in the office down town for a week at a time, for the mail does

Page 6

not go or come very regular. and a great ways for it to go overland. I received the letter that George wrote to me but no paper and I dont hardly think the paper will ever come. I suppose Chloe can talk as fast as ever and get up as the folks down here would say (a right smart jam), but after all there is many worse girls in the world than Chloe. but not many that can get mad as quick as she can. I wish that I could get a furlough for as long a time as Billy Jordan did. I'll bet he has had a good time at home. the last time I saw him was after we got back to Lexington from Ohio. I saw him at the depot, and he came up to our camp once or twice after. well if Dave aint really done it, or the woman, I shouldnt have thought they could have got as sick of a place as that in so short a time. it must have been the first time she was ever away from home to live. oh well if Almira has not got a good birth I dont know who could have one. I'll bet when Mr. Round comes back he will have more stories to tell about her than she can hear for a week. I have heard him talk before and can jest imagine how much fun he will make of her, but it is Ira E and I wish he had gone in some of the other boys places, so that he could

Page 7

partake of the comforts of camp life. we have had a good deal of bad weather already this fall and some of the time it has been pretty cold, and from what the people say, we will get a good deal of wet and it will be pretty muddy most all winter. I think we have got about far enough south to have it nasty mean weather all winter. I dont think it will be cold enough to freeze up but very little. I will be as careful of myself as possible Sarah and take care of my throat. and hope before another winter comes on us that I will be out of the service and all the rest of the soldiers, and then if I should be taken sick I will be sure to have good care. and darling for your sake I will watch myself and better my morals. but Sarah you wont forget yourself I hope for my sake. dont overwork yourself, and tire yourself to death nor expose yourself to all kinds of weather. oh Sarah I wish that I could see you. I believe that I could talk to you faster than I can write. but I must bring this to a close asking your pardon for not writing before, but Sarah still loving you as true as ever. I remain yours John direct to Knoxville Tennessee care of Capt Joe C Shields 19th Ohio Battery 1st Brigade 3d Division 23d Army Corps

