Page 1

Knoxville Tenn May 14th/61 My Dear Sister America To the charge of neglecting you, if you bring it, I shall plead guilty, and await the sentence: but during these many months past though I have not written to you, you and yours, have been often thought of, and spoken of. I hope this will find you well and prosperous: the good hand of God has been over my family for good, and in good health, comforts and peace & safety we have cause for unceasing thanksgiving. The season, though unusually wet and cool has been favorable for crops, and my garden looks unusually promising. I picked a fine lot of sugar peas this morning for dinner : shall raise all I can force my garden to produce, for I fear provisions will be bought at a dear rate in the South before the civil war, now upon us, is brought to a close, for all provisions of every kind from the North are prohibited. I shall not attempt to tell you much

Page 2

about matters political for you will get fuller and better information on this point from the papers. It is my opinion that there will not be much fighting; that the US government will retake the arsenals and forts, and then gradually hem in and shut up the CSA, and let them sting themselves to death; but all surmises may be very wide of the truth : certain I am the government will maintain itself at whatever cost of mony and men. The North, since the Sumpter affair, is a unit and the border slave states much divided; hence the most terrible scenes are likely to occur in the border states. Parties in this city are nearly equally divided, hence we have many street fights & much angry contention. About 1000 troops are encamped near the city, much to the annoyance of our people. Some five or six thousand have passed through here by RR within the last ten days; inflamatory speeches were made at the depot, amid the wildest excitement; all classes of our people & both sides turning out, en masse. Some of our students have left to join the CSA

Page 3

army and the rest have formed themselves into a military company for drill for recreation, they are now in front of my window going through their evolutions. I write this at the morning recess. You may wish to know if we Yankees are save here; thus far we are, though I am informed that the vigilance committee have decided that some of them must leave. I do not expect that I shall be allowed to retain my post in this institution after this term which expires the last of June, but I may. where I shall go if I leave I have no idea. I could not sell my effects for anything hardly as times are here now. But amid all these troubles I am perfectly calm, and as dangers thicken find my courage and faith rise. I am confident God will overrule all for the good of the land, and we ought to be willing that he should dispose of us as a people as it seems good to him. I suppose you in Orego will not be much affected by the war. I hope God will

Page 4

send you bountiful harvests and prosperity in the Pacific coasts. From Bro Samuel we have not heard for some time, when he last wrote he was at Taos New Mexico. Where he will turn up next if alive we know not. I do not suppose he has any notion of going to California or Oregon, but now that he has got to roaming around the world may do so. Do you expect to ever come to the Eastern states, if you live. We are all very anxious to see you and Sam . I suppose he is old and strong enough now to help you a good deal, and hope his life will be spared and he become a great and good man. Write us as soon as you get this, and tell us all about yourself, your family &c. If you shall delay writing for some weeks we might be gone before your letter would reach this place. If anything tanspires causing our removal from Knoxville we will write you at once Wife sends much love Yours MC Butler

