Page 1

Mecklenburg near Knoxville Dear General A pamphlet has recently published wich you have probably seen containing - documents of an interesting nature. From it the fact is established beyond controversy that a convention composed of &c &c vested with unlimited powers met at Charlotte in Mecklenburg county N.C. to deliberate on the existing state of things - From these deliberations resulted + the convention made a declared - Which declared themselves & represented a free & independent of the government + a transaction as glorious & eventful as it is honorable to the virtuous firmness patriotic dream & the intelligence of the Convention They met on the 19th May 1775 & on unhappily been suffered to remain the united in declaring themselves a free & independent people & however absolved themselves from all allegiance in a great measure unknown & forgotten & has to the British Crown. This Declaration of Independence is in its letters & never been inserted in the historical records of our Country. The memory of such an event ought to be perpetuated & cherished in the bosom onwards 1st. of the American people. On a late visit to my relations in Mecklenburg I was informed 2nd that the 2nd Hero of New Orleans + the distinguished Citizen of my native State was the Deliverer of his country present at Charlotte on that memorable occasion - you when other & Wishing to obtain all more important the information that can at this late period be collected relative to this avocation will permit to inform me who were members I have taken the liberty to request your leaders in that transaction of the Convention - especially who were the President & Secretary or the primary members of the Convention - and any thing else on these such part character in forming the declaration yet you may think proper to communicate will be received most gratefully may allow to wrest from oblivion one of the most briliant transactions of in the early history of this Country. I have the honor to be with much respect yours &c May 30, 1823 The following text is a second rough draft, upside down, at the bottom of the first page. Judge Haywood I have in my possession a pamphlet which you have no doubt seen establishing the fact that Convention met on the 19 May 1775 at Charlotte & declared themselves a free & independent people. I have thought that perhaps in your historical researches you have received some information on the subject or that you have some recollection of that Mill place important fact in the early history of Country. I should be happy to hear from you on this subject as soon as your other valuable engagements will permit yours May 30, 1823 The preceding text is a second rough draft, upside down, at the bottom of the first page.

Page 2

Mecklenburg near Knoxville May 29, 1823 My dear Sir I have in my possession a pamphlet that contains certificates and attestations from many persons of respectability & standing in North Carolina that a convention vested with unlimited powers met at Charlotte Meck County N.C. and on the 19 May 1775 declared themselves a free & independent people This declaration as it is more than thirteen months sooner than the national one of July 4, 1776 and as it is not only similar in its spirit & letter to it but also in some parts identically the same is considered a momentous transaction & one altogether honorable to the virtue intelligence & independence of that section of the country when it took place. The members of that immortal Convention have with the exception of two or three left this for the world of spirits. One of the survivors Zacheras Willson resides near Gallatin and my object in writing to you at this time is to procure from him through you any information he can at this late period of his life give of that eventful transaction. Particularly the first moves of the business - the members names - pursuits in life &c. the name of the President & Secretary & the feelings of the mass of the people on the subject, & any thing else he may think proper to communicate. A certificate from him will bear with it a kind of official authority as he was a member of the Con & must have understood all the first steps of the that glorious event &c Rev. J.R. Bain

