THE OLD19thTENN.Tennessee--REG'TRegimentC.S.A.Confederate States of
                                AmericaJune 1861 - April 1865W. J. WorshamKnoxville, Tenn.A Confederate $500 bill.Representing nothing on God's earth now,And naught in the waters below it,As the pledge of a nation that's dead and gone,Keep it, dear friends, and show it--Show it to those who will lend an earTo the tale that this trifle can tell,Of a liberty born of the patriot's dream,Of a storm-cradled nation that fell.Too poor to possess the precious ores,And too much of stranger to borrow,We issued to-day our promise to pay,And hoped to redeem on the morrow.The days rolled by and the weeks became years,But our coffers were empty still;Coin was so rare that the treasury 'd quakeIf a dollar should drop in the till.But the faith that was in us was strong indeed,And our poverty well we discerned,And this little check represented the payThat our suffering veterans earned.We knew it had hardly a value in gold,Yet as gold each soldier received it;It gazed in our eyes with a promise to pay,And each southern patriot believed it.But our boys thought little of peace or of pay,Or of bills that were over-due;We knew if it bought us our bread to-day,'Twas the best our poor country could do.Keep it: it tells all our history over,From the birth of the dream to its last;Modest, and born of the angel, Hope,Like our hope success, IT PASSED.DR. W. J. WORSHAM,DruggistJunction Asylum and Clinton Streets.Knoxville, Tenn.,.......190 .DedicationTo the survivors, and in memory of the dead of the Old 19th TennTennessee regiment C.S.A.Confederate States of America, who through Sunshine & storm, head &
                    winter blasts, whose bed often was the frozen ground, &
                    whose cover was the beautiful white Snow. The many hardships
                    endured and the privations of Army life suffered all for
                    loved ones at Home and their leaned Sanny, is this book
                    respectfully deadicateddedicatedby theAuthor Knoxville Tenn.Jan 10th 1902.The Old 19th
                        TennesseeC.S.A.Chapter I.The late "Rebellion" or the war between the the North and
                        the South will furnish themes for discussion, and battle
                        scenes to be gone over again by all who were engaged in
                        it, and after they have passed into the beyond, to
                        history will go down the ages to be read by coming
                        generations. The war cloud that spread over this country
                            1861, grew from a dark spot
                        not bigger than a man's hand, seen first in 1620, and out of which issued the
                        edict calling forth the 19th Tennessee regiment, and
                        enrolling her name upon the War God's historic scroll.
                        When the "Mayflower" landed her cargo of Puritan
                        Pilgrims on Plymouth Rock, they found Negro Slavery,
                        evidently the germ of the late Rebellion, planted in
                        the soil of American civilization.There it germinated and matured, until in the spring of
                            1861; its agitation
                        resulted in Civil War. This Negro question not yet
                        observed by the masses, was evidently the dark
                        background of the coming struggle. Of all the storm
                        clouds that have passed over the country, none ever
                        blackened the political firmament as did this. The
                        darkness was so black and ominous as to attract the
                        anxious gaze of the civilized world, and nations looked
                        on with 1861 June 1stprofound interest. It is true this land had
                            heard
                        the roar of musketry and cannon through her hill and
                        valleys in the long years gone by, but the fearful
                        destructiveness of this coming storm, was all undreamed of
                        by her people. Soon the NationNation's heartstring would be torn asunder, and her
                        life blood let out through thousands of pores, and the
                        North and the Sunny South would lament their fallen Sons
                        and ruined homes.The tocsin of War was now heard ringing through out the
                        whole land, from the North to the South from the East to the West. The line was drawn, and in the
                        division the South was the smaller in territory and
                        resources. Practically she had nothing yet
                        there was excitement, and a gathering of the people,
                        Companies, regiments and brigades were founded.
                        Tennessee cast her lot with the South June 8th 1861. She had no
                        ammunition and no guns save a few old flintlocks - the
                        relics of the Mexican War; yet Generals Pillow and Polk
                        in Middle and West Tenn.Tennessee, and General Zollicoffer in E. TennEast Tennessee were organizing.In E. Tenn, companies from Bristol to Chattanooga were gathering at Knoxville. Col. J. C. Vangh
                        having completed one regiment had gone on to Virginia.
                        On June 10th 1861 the old 19th organized with companies
                        from all along the E T. Va & Ga railroadEast Tennessee, Virginia &
                                Georgia Railroad from Bristol to Chattanooga the most of which were from
                        upper E. Tennessee.Chapter II.OrganizationThe 19th Tennessee regiment was organized in the old
                            Fair ground about two miles east of the city of
                                Knoxville. The camp
                            was called Camp Cummings in honor of Col. D.H. Cummings the
                            first colonel of the regiment.The officers where as follows:David H. Cummings ColonelFrank M Walker LieutLieutenant "Abe Fulkerson MajorV.Q. Johnson AdjutantH. Mel Doak Sergt MajDr. Joe E. Delaney SurgeonA. D. Taylor Quarter MasterRev. David Sullins ChaplainBy AppointmentW.J. Worsham } Regimental FifeRuful Lamb } Musicians Ket DrumJames Tyner } Bass "Companies"A"John D. PowellCaptainHamilton"1st Lieut""Daniel Kennedy2d """Frank Foust3d """B"Zeb T. WilletCaptainWashington"Joseph Conley1st Lieut""Nathan Gregg2d """James D. Deadrick3d ""1861 June 10th"C"James K SnappCaptainSullivan"Charles St John X X Resigned soon
                                        after & Sergt Webb elected 1st
                                        Lieut1st Lieut""Geo H. Hull2d """John M. Jones3d """D"Elmon E. ColvilleCaptainRhea"Pete Miller1st Lieut""James A. Wallace2d """S.J.A. Frazier3d """E"John W PaxtonCaptainKnoxville"John M Miller1st Lieut""J.K. Grayham2d """W.W. Lackey3d """F"J.H. HumnerCaptainPolk"P.C. Gaston1st Lieut""J.M Sims2d """J.C. Holms3d """G"A.L. GummonCaptainSullivan"James A. Rhea1st Lieut""Robert L. Blain2d """James Carlton3d """H"Wm LoweryCaptainMcMinn"U.S. York1st Lieut""D.A. Wilds2d """Thos Maston3d ""1861 June 10th"I"T.H. WalkerCaptainHamilton"B.F. Moore1st Lieut""Warren Hooper2d """John Lovejoy3d """K"C.W. HinkillCaptainHawkins"Robert D. Powell1st Lieut""Sam P. Powell2d """Sam Spears3d ""Number of men in each company.CompanyAhad97men"B"100""C"104""D"103""E"106""F"93""G"110""H"94"""""I"110""K"100"The number of men enrolled of rank and file was one
                            thousand and twelve, and of commissioned officers
                            forty eight, making a total of one thousand and
                            sixty. Now we began camp life in earnest. Formed
                            messes of from four to six each, with one tent, tin
                            plates, cups and cooking utensils for each mess.
                            Each man had one blanket one canteen, and a napsack
                            and haversack.Camp Cummings2d Chapter1861 June 15thThis was indeed a new life to us, and a more restless
                            set of men could not be formed than were we.* *=Every hour of the long
                                    day, from the dim, gray misty light of dawn
                                    to the soft glow of shadowy evening, was
                                    full of excitement and new delights to
                                    us. Although drill was the order of the day, yet
                            when not drilling the men were on the move all the
                            time, untill taps put an end to the restlessness and
                            quiet reigned. The different maneuvers in drill and
                            in the manual of arms occupied our attention during
                            the day. There were guards at regular intervals
                            around the encampment. These were called sentinels
                            and had so far to walk back and forth, called beats.
                            During the hours of the night, when the dull tramp
                            of the soldiers was hushed in sleep, no sound was
                            heard save that of the sentinel on his beat, and the
                            calling of the poast and hours by the sentinels.Col. Cummings had an old negro man named "Munger."
                            Old Munger was a fife and could play only one tune,
                            which he called "My wife is sick" Poor old Munger I
                            can hear him now. Munger staid with the regiment
                            till we reached Cumberland ford'A''A'- on page 6= On one
                                    occasion, in order to try the command, the
                                    enemy was announced advancing & we w
                                    were ordered out as we supposed to fight.
                                    The test being made the command returned to
                                    camp. Old Munger had a small tent. In his
                                    fright he had stuck his head into the tent
                                    lying on his belly, with his feet out side.
                                    Munger was a guina negro and believed he was
                                    400 years old.June 22dCompanies "A" and "E" were ordered to
                            Cumberland Gap under command of Capt J.D. Powell.
                            The "Field band" of which we had charge was ordered
                            with these two companies.We boarded the cars at the depot and moved out for
                                Morristown, from which
                            place we marched across the country to the Gap. We
                            camped the first night at Bean
                                Station a fine watering place at the foot
                            of Chlinch Mountains. There were black and white
                                sulphur and other waters.Barbacue1861 June 23das we entered the gorge in which the Springs are
                            situated the air was preceptibly laded with
                            sulphurated hydrogen One of the boys cried out, "We
                            are at head quarters for rotten eggs." The next day
                            by prearrangements of the Ladies they gave us a
                            "Barbacue" at the station. Men, women, and children
                            were there from all around. Our two companies
                            marched and counter marched, while our band did its
                            best marching at the head of the column. We were the
                            "Elephant" that day. On the morning of the 24th we
                            moved on towards the Gap encountering rough roads,
                            and crossing Clinch and Powell rivers, we pitched
                            our tents within two miles of the Gap, where we
                            remained two or three days. While here Sergeant
                            David Kuhn accidently shot him self with a pistol
                            through the hand and was registered upon the
                            Surgeon's book as the first casualty of the
                            regiment2d Chapt.June the 27 we moved up the Gap and pitched
                            our tents on the mountain top "Up in the region of the cloudsWhere the cold winds blowOur tents of fancy stuck." Our encampment here was on high, steep and
                            rough ground. So steep the boys declared they had to
                            tie them selves in the bed at night to keep fromm
                            rolling out. Lieut Col. FM Walker came on to the Gap
                            in a few days after our arrival. When companies "A"
                            and "E" left Knoxvill companies "F" and "H" under
                            command of Maj Fulkerson went to Jamestown, about seventy five miles from
                            the Gap on the Cumberland range. Soon after these
                            Col Cummings left with four companies B-D-G,I-&moved out by way of Clinton and camped for a
                            while near his old home. From this place he proceded
                            to Big Creek Gap in the Cumberland Mountains where
                            he remained until the 4th of July & companies C
                            & K were sent to Loudon
                                Tenn to guard the RR Bridge at that
                            place.Cumberland Gap1861 June 27thWe had not been long in the Gap, when one of Co. "A"
                            was taken sick and died, and was buried with
                            military honors. His death was the first recorded in
                            the regiment. Men and women and children came into
                            camp daily, bringing butter, chicken, eggs, &c
                            to sell.Soon we had the Confederate flag floating in the
                            breze from the "Pinnacle" one of the highest points
                            on the mountain. Up in Virginia some 10 miles were a
                            few Cavalrymen, who did picket duty along this part
                            of the mountain. One day in July these cavalry men
                            brought into camp some twenty men as prisoners, whom
                            they had captured, who were making their way across
                            the mountain into Kentucky. Among them was Thos A.K.
                            Nelson of Jonesboro Tenn. Col. Walker sent them on
                            to Knoxville. Frequently
                            men would come into camp and remain until late at
                            night and go home. Here we had sentinels all around
                            our encampment at close intervals as the ground was
                            so rough. One post was withing ten steps of my tent,
                            which was twenty feet above the road leading up the
                            mountain. The sentinel was posted in this road. One
                            evening a Virginian came into camp riding a fine
                            horse, hitched him and intended remaining late. The
                            night was dark and the overhanging treas where the
                            sentinel stood rendered the darkness more intense.
                            About nine Oclock the Sentry heard steps approaching
                            in the road on the inside of the camp, as if someone
                            was trying to slip by him, or upon him. What ever it
                            was, it would make one or two steps cautiously and
                            halt, then two or three more and halt again. Being
                            so dark the sentinel could not see anything. Closer
                            and closer came the steps, when we heard the
                            sentinel challenge the approaching foot steps.Cumberland Gap1861 July 20thHalt! halt! Who comes there?but no response. A step or two more and halt cried
                            the sentinel, yet the steps came closer. Click click
                            we heard the sentinel's gun as he made ready to
                            fire. Halt once more he cried and bang went his gun.
                            A horse wheeled and ran back some twenty steps and
                            fell dead. It was the fine horse the Virginian rode
                            in the evening before. It had gotten loose and was
                            trying to get by the sentinel. Col Walker, one
                            evening was carelessly handling or shaking a box of
                            caps in his hand when they exploded, blowing open
                            the box and pieces of caps cut his hand in several
                            places.July the 4th Col Cummings came up to the Gap with the
                            four companies he had with him, and the third day
                            after Maj Fulkerson came up with the two he had. All
                            the regiment was here now and drill was the order of
                            the day. We had to go down into the valley on the
                            Tennessee side to find ground on which to drill. We
                            fortified the Gap by throwing up works across the
                            Gap. Throwing up the breast works and drill gave us
                            something to do.A dense fog.1861 August 20thThe Rev David Sullins was our Chaplain with whom we
                            were all in love. He preached regularly for us and
                            each sunday evening we had Sunday school, our
                            Chaplain the superintendent. Now and then false
                            alarms would be given, and such a hustling on the
                            mountain side to get into line. When these alarms
                            were made at night, the men, in their hurry to get
                            into position, would fall down and some times roll
                            several feet down the steep side of the mountain before getting a foot hold. In the Gap, our
                            camp was up in the Clouds. And frequently we would
                            be in the center of a storm clound and the lightning
                            would seem to leap out of the clouds and fall in
                            round balls to the ground. One clear bright morning
                            about 9 oclock the sun seemed to shine with unusual
                            brightnessA dense fogcame drifting down the mountain
                            hunting a place to cross. It was so heavy it would
                            not rise above the Mountain top, and sought an
                            opening in the Gap. On reaching the Gap it began
                            pouring itself through and so dense was it for an
                            hour the sun could not be seen, and part of the time
                            we could not see objects ten feet from us.Our short stay in the Gap will long be
                            remembered.About the last of August Col Brammer's battalion of
                            Cavalry came up to the Gap, and they were closely
                            followed by the 15thMiss Col. W.S. Stathon; the 11th
                            Tenn Col. Rains; 17th Tenn Col. Newman; 20th Tenn
                            Col Battle; 29th Tenn Col Powell; and Captain
                            Rutlege's Artillery. The next day Brig Gen F.K. ZollicofferBrigadier General Felix
                                        Kirk Zollicoffer and his staff came and took command of the
                            entire force at the Gap. On the 4th September Gen
                            Zollicoffer moved the command out to Cumberland ford
                            on the Cumberland river and establishedCamp
                            Zollicoffer.Camp Zollicoffer1861 Sept 4thHere the Cavalry were kept at the front all the time
                            on picket duty. While here our regiment received a
                            brass band of ten pieces with music complete. We
                            formed a band and after a little practice began
                            playing on duty. We liked our young band but its
                            life, like that of the "May fly," was asshort in duration.
                            Our encampment here
                            looked quite military. We had about six thousand two
                            hundred men. September the 12th Gen Zollicoffer sent
                            out a detachment under Col Battle composed of two
                            companies from each regiment, and one battalion of
                            Cavalry to Barbersville KYKentucky, where it was reported a force of the enemy
                            was camped. Companies "B" and "K" were detailed from
                            the 19th Tennessee regiment. Early in the morning of
                            the 13th they ran upon the enemy in a corn field
                            just past this side of town. Company "K" of the 19th
                            Tennessee was thrown out as a skirmish line and it
                            advanced on the enemy and began firing. While it was
                            but a small skirmish line, and this being their
                            first under fire, it seemed like fighting and
                            sounded of battle. In this little battle Lieut
                            Robert Powell of Co "K" was killed, and a few others
                            were wounded. This made the 19th Tenn loose the
                            first man killed this side of Virginia. The
                            detachment returned next day and Lieut Powell's
                            remains were sent home for burial. Gen Zollicoffer
                            sent our regiment accompanied by Col Brazleton's
                            Cavalry on an expedition toGoose Creek Salt
                            works about forty miles north in the KYKentucky Mountains.Goose Creek Salt works.1861 Sept 25thIt had been raining for several days, and the morning
                            of September the 25th we started out in one of the
                            hardest rains that had fallen for some time. We
                            encountered rought mountainous roads and swollen
                            streams. Some places on our journey we could not see
                                an hundred yards
                            except by looking up. We passed but few habitations
                            and they were stuck upon the mointain's side. The
                            rain continued pouring in torrents all the day
                            rendering our progress difficult yet on we went. The
                            morning of the 3dday we arrived at Goose Creek about
                            two miles above the Salt Works, the objective point
                            of our journey. We found the creek much swollen from
                            the resent rains. The road and this creek ran down
                            between the ridges together. They took it time about
                            in crossing each other and alway went through each
                            other. In the two miles we had to go down this creek
                            we had to wade it seventeen times. At each crossing
                                we had to wade,
                            we lost some mud each
                                time, that we had gathered on our way. We
                            loaded our wagons with two hundred bushels of salt.
                            There was plenty of honey here and the boys first
                            loaded up on honey, filling them selves with it
                            until it became too sweet to be good. So sick many
                            of them were that they cared for neither honey nor
                            salt. For some time after, just to speak of honey
                            and the boys would gag.Goose Creek1861 Sept 30thWe returned to camp after being gone five days tired
                            and almost fagged out. Having fulfilled our mission
                            and accomplished that for which we were sent we sat
                            down in camp and rested. Mr. White who had charge of
                            the salt works, had a fine lot of ducks and geese.
                            The boys had killed several of them, and Mr White
                            was complaining to on of the regiment John Webster of Co K about it. Webster told him it was a shame
                            and he would see that the men were punished and that
                            no more would be killed. Just then a duck he had
                            concealed under his coat began to quack and at once
                            he had business with the regiment and the old man
                            returned to the house none the less pacifiedA small, black and white landscape,
                                presumably of Goose Creek. The image has been
                                clipped from a postcard, newspaper or some other
                                source and pasted in the manuscript.Chapter III.Rock Castle.We had now been out nearly four months playing the
                            roll of soldier. The exhilarating life in the
                            beginning had now somewhat worn away, and camp life
                            had become a monotonous routine of military duties.
                            We had done but little as yet, but from indications
                            we would soon enter the arena of war in truth. And
                            after the wire edge of our martial chivalry shall
                            have been worn away, we may and will be more able to
                            stand in the storm of battle. While we lay idle in
                            Camp Zollicoffer the Federals concentrated a
                            considerable force onder Gen Schoeff at Rock Castle or Wild Cat in KYKentucky. The Federal Col Garrard had three
                            regiments there, and on the 15thOctobr had been reinforced by Gen Schoeff with
                            three more, and one battery of artillery and one
                            battalion of Cavalry.The morning of the 16thGen Zollicoffer with his
                            entire force moved out to attack this force at Wild
                            Cat. The rout through the mountains was rough and
                            heavily timbered, the greater part of the way was
                            between precipitus ridges which rendered our march
                            hazardous. To retard our advance the enemy had
                            fallen trees across the road, and in other ways had
                            obstructed our way. We did not reach the enemy until
                            early in the morning of the 20th and having marched
                            and worked all the night before, did not feel like
                                1861 October
                                        25th attacking the enemy in his den that morning.
                                Gov. A.S. Marks whe
                            was with us, and who commanded a company in the 17th
                            regiment says, "The hill on which the enemy had
                            fortified was at the head of a gorge about a quarter
                            of a mile wide. This fortified hill commanded the
                            road ovar Rock Castle hills. The day before the
                            enemy was reached, we found the road approaching the
                            hills and miles away from it obstructed by fallen
                            trees. Men were put to work to clear away the
                            obstruction. We were not allowed to eat or sleep
                            until the enemy was reached next morning. We moved a
                            hundred yards at a time as the fallen trees were
                            gotten out of the way. When the hill was reached the
                            road was found impassable from the fallen trees. The
                            advance was through the woods. We found the face of
                            the hill a precipitous bluff with but a small place
                            accessible. My company only could find ground to ascend which we did, and found the
                            entrenchments of the enemy but sixty yards from the
                            crest, with abuis in front. We opened fire which was
                            briskly returned. My company filled all the
                            available space, so we could not be reinforced and
                            we were recalled. I lost in my company six killed
                            and twenty wounded. Some were killed and wounded in
                            the other companies. No other attempt was made to
                            assault any where else." Col Newman's regiment was
                            the only one engaged, and his loss in all was eleven
                            killed and twenty Seven wounded. The loss of the
                            enemy was but five killed and eleven wounded.
                            Zollicoffer returned to camp at Cumberland Ford,
                            where after a few days rest, he began an evacuation
                            of this part of KYKentucky.Jacksborough1861 Nov 10thOctober the 30th we bid adieu to camp Zollicoffer
                                (and left it to the
                                inexorable Fates) Moving out early in the
                            morning, we headed for the Gap, through which we
                            passed and turned down the mountain towards Jacksborough Tennessee.Two regiments Col Rain's (11th Tenn.) and Col
                            Newmans' (17 Tenn) were left at the Gap to hold it
                            against occupation by the enemy. We reached
                            Jacksborough November the 4th where we remained a
                            few days blockading the passes along the mountain.
                            At this place unfavorable indications began to show
                            regarding the future usefulness of our young brass
                            band. Col. Cummings ordered all the men belonging to
                            the band, except the old Field band, to carry their
                            guns, this the men did not feel like doing, carry
                            their guns and horn. So on the morning of our
                            leaving Jacksborough we stacked our horns on the
                            ground and left them. This was the demise of our
                            "Brass Band." The regiment fell back on the old
                            Field band which she never abandoned, nor did the
                            little faithful band ever prove truant to its trust
                            and on the morning of the regiment's last roll call,
                            this same faithful Field band called them into line.
                            X Leaving Jacksborough we passed through Wartburg
                            and Montgomery and after crossing "Little Emery"
                            river, we assended the Cumberland Mountains again on
                            whoses top we traveled for thirty miles through as
                            lonely and desolate a country as could be found. We
                            passed a residence about every six miles, till we
                            reached Jamestown the County Seat of Fentress, a
                            small cluster of houses in a rocky, barren country
                            almost destitute of any sign of life, where the
                            wind's only song is a sad requiem of starvation.
                            Leaving the mountain just beyond Jamestown we turned
                            our course northward, and the second day we entered
                            the Valley of Monticello KYKentucky, beautiful and fertile. We passed through
                            the town of Monticello December 2d with colors
                            flying and jubilant in Spirits, moving on for Mill
                            Springs on the Cumberland, where we pitched our
                            tents the evening of the same day.Mill Springs1861 Dec 2dAfter reaching Mill Springs, Gen Zollicoffer wrote to
                                Gen A.S. JohnsonJohnston of his intention to cross the Cumberland
                            river and fortify on the opposite side. And to
                            accomplish this, he built two flat boats and with
                            these he crossed the Cumberland with five regiments
                            of infantry, seven companies of cavalry and four
                            pieces of artillery. Moving out from the the river
                            about one mile on an elevation, he fortified his
                            position, pitching our tents in a beautiful Beech
                            Grove. After Zollicoffer had settled down in his new
                            quarters he received two dispatches from Gen A.S. JohnsonJohnston, and in one of them he says, "Mill Springs
                            would seem to answer best all the demmands of
                            service and from this point you may be able to
                            observe the river without crossing."Beech Grove1861 Dec 10But before these reached Gen Zollicoffer, he had
                            crossed the river, and to them replied as
                            follows.Camp Beech Grove KyKentuckyDec 10th 1861General JohnsonJohnston: Your two dispatches reached me late
                                last night. I infer from your that I should not
                                have crossed the river. But it is now too late.
                                My means of recrossing the river is so limited I
                                could hardly accomplish it it the face of the
                                enemy, besides winter is now on us.YoursFK Zollicoffer.Brig. Gen.It was said Gen Crittenden sent word to Gen
                            Zollicoffer to speedily recross the river; but be
                            that as it may, when Gen Crittenden came, he found
                            Gen Zollicoffer still on the North side of the
                            river, behind breast works and comfortably fixed in
                            log cabins for the winter, which now had set in in
                            earnest.Our regiment occupied a position on the line of works
                            on the extreme right, on a high bluff overlooking
                            the river above. We were in a bend of the river, and
                            our line of works extended from the river above
                            nearly to the river below. We had not any kind of
                            drill since we left Cumberland Gap. And as for
                            brigade drill such a thing had not been mentioned.
                            Here we were too busy building breast works and
                            quarter to think of drilling. Just now a peep into
                            our inner life as soldiers shows that in our short
                            outing as such, the morals of the men had
                            degenerated Strange, how quickly men,
                                    from under the influence of home &
                                    mother, loose sight of the good & with
                                    what tenacety they take hold of the bad,
                                    & too right in the face of danger. How
                                    enticing are the intrigues of the
                                    Devil.1862 Jan 10Our army tactics, like the Mariner's when off
                            sounding, know no Sunday, only as a day of extra
                            duty. Since our crossing the Cumberland river, the
                            Federals had concentrated under Gen Schoeff at Somerset several regiments
                            of infantry, some cavalry and artillery. And under
                            Gen Thomas at Lebanon
                            sixteen regiments of infantry, cavalry and
                            artillery. Our cavalry were now at the front all the
                            time, and every now and then would have a spat with
                            the enemy. On the eighth of January our cavalry
                            brought into camp fifteen or sixteen prisoners among whom were Maj Helverts and Capt
                            Prine, both of the engineer corps. It was reported
                            that a regiment of infantry was encamped on the
                            creek not far from the river, nor very far from our
                            encampment. So, the morning of the tenth the 19th
                            Tenn was sent out to see after them. We left camp
                            about three oclock in the morning. It was very dark
                            and a cold drizzling rain falling and very muddy. As
                            we drew near the supposed camp of the enemy our
                            movements were at a snails gait, so slow we could
                            not keep up sufficient circulation to keep warm, and
                            freeze we thought we would. We moved on so
                            cautiously, we were not allowed to step so as to make a noise. Our feet were so numbed
                            with cold we could not stand on one foot, and to
                            move was painful. They felt as if a thousand needles
                            were sticking them.A Cold Wade1862 Jan 10At daylight we reached the creek, but found no trace
                            of the enemy. We must cross the creek and the only way was to wade. How could we this this better
                            cold morning and almost frozedn, but there was no
                            other alternative. So, after disrobing partly, in we
                            went and the cold water as it crept up our legs,
                            seemed full of needles pricking them. This cold wade
                            proved to be the very thing for us after getting out
                            reactions set in and soon we were warm and
                            comfortable. We returned to Camp with only the
                            fisherman's luck.January the 15th Maj Gen Geo B Crittenden with Brig
                            Gen Carroll's brigade composed of the following
                            regiments viz= Col Newman's 17th Tenn; Col Stanton 25th Tenn; Col Murray's 28th Tenn; Col Powell' 29th
                            Tenn; Col White's 27th Tenn; Col Wood's 16th AlaAlabama; McClung's battery of 2 guns, and Col
                            Brammer's and McClelland's battalion of cavalry
                            arrived. Col Mose White with his regiments remained
                            at Mill Springs and did not cross the river. Gen
                            Thomas at this time had joined Gen Schoeff at
                            Somerset, with his eight thousand infantry, cavalry
                            and artillery. The combined force of the enemy now
                            was (12) twelve regiments of infantry, two regiments
                            of cavalry and four batteries. He began an advance
                            movement on our forces the 17th January.For several days previous the rains had been heavy
                            and incessant and the streams were all swollen. Such
                            was the condition of Fishing Creek when Thomas
                            reached it, compelling him to remain on his own side
                            of the creek until the evening of the 18th when he
                            crossed a part of his men.Council of War1862 Jan 17thFriday night of the 17th Gen Crittenden called a
                            council of war, composed of the brigade and
                            regimental commanders and captains of batteries, to
                            consider the best thing to do: whether to attack
                            Thomas before he could cross all his forces over the
                            now swollen creed, or wait for him to attack us in
                            our entrenchments. The result ot the council was to
                            move on the enemy at the earliest possible
                            moment.It was said in camp the next morning Gen Zollicoffer
                            and Col Cummings oposed the advance and the
                            attack.All day Saturday the men were busy inspecting their
                            arms and getting everything ready for the attack.
                            Fishing Creek although a small stream was now
                            swollen out of bank. It ran nearly (north and South) and
                            emptying into the Cumberland river about six miles
                            above Mill Springs. The
                            crossing was on the road leading from Somerset to Mill Springs,
                            and about twelve miles from our encampment. On this
                            or the western side of the Creek is a low bottom
                            land for some distance. For two or three hundred
                            yard out from the Creek was heavily timbered and
                            from this to the top of the ridge was cleared and
                            under cultivation and was about three hundred yards
                            wide, the public road dividing it into two large
                            fields. On the west side and near the foot of the
                            ridge stood a log cabin which we used as a field
                            hospital.Saturday night at midnight the army was put in
                            motion. The night was dark and cold, and the bitter
                            winds drove the sleet and rain in our faces, yet on
                            we went, plodding in the gloom and mud to the front
                            and to battle.Fishing Creek1862 Jan 19thThe order of the march was as followsFirst BrigadeBrig Gen FK Zollicoffer15th Miss Col WS Statham, 19th Tenn
                                        Col Cummings, 20th Tenn " Battles, 25th
                                        " StantonRutledge's ArtillerySecond BrigadeBrig Gen Carrolls17th Tenn Col Newman, 28th Tenn Col
                                        Murray, 29th " " Powell, 16th Ala "
                                        WoodMcLung's Battery.Of cavalry, there were Bledsow's, Sander's,
                            Brammer's, and McClelland's. Bledsow's and Sander's
                            were in front of Zollicoffer, the other two
                            battalions were behind Carroll's brigade.Sunday morning the 19th at daylight the Cavalry ran
                            upon the enemy's pickets One and a half miles out in
                            their front. A few shots were exchanged and the
                            enemy slowly fell back to his main line. Our Cavalry
                            did not push them. The 15th Miss took the front
                            closely followed by the 19thTenn. Soon we
                            encountered their main picket line at the foot of
                            the ridge, which as we approached fell back to the
                            top of the hill. We halted at the foot of the ridge
                            and formed line of battle. The balls begain passing
                            over our heads pretty fast with a zip, zip. They did
                            not seem to be shooting directly at us, for they
                            were not more than two hundred yards away but on the
                            hill above us.1862 Jan 19thThe 15th Miss formed on the right of the road with
                            the 20th Tenn Col Battle joining them also on the
                            right. Then two regiments formed the right wing of
                            our line of battle. The 19th Tenn fell right into
                            line facnig the front just on the left of the road,
                            joining Battle's regiment, while the 25th Tenn
                            formed to our left and just a little in our
                            rear.Gen Carroll had not yet come up and had not fourmed
                            line of battle. For our regiment to get into
                            position we had to file through an old persimmon
                            thicket, and as we entered it Col. Cummings said to
                            me, we will hang our overcoat, blanket and haversack
                            on this (a large persimmon) bush we were just
                            passing, and we will gather them on our return. We
                            did so, but neither of us ever saw them again.
                            Getting into line, we moved up the hill to the left
                            of the road, the enemy retiring over and beyond the
                            top of the ridge. By the time we reached the summit
                            the firing was getting brisk.The 15th Miss first opened the battle, engaging the
                            12th KYKentucky then Battle opened on the enemy. The 19th
                            Tenn encountered the 10th Indiana about half way
                            between the top of the ridge and the woods in the
                            bottom. The 19th Tenn charged at a double quick
                            closely followed by the 25th Tenn, and drove the
                            enemy under the shelter of the wood.The 15th Miss and 20th Tenn by this time had also
                            driven the enemy from the top of the ridge into the
                            woods below, thus forcing the whole Federal line
                            from the clearing in to the woods on the creek.1862 Jan 19The rains continued falling, some times in heavy
                            showers. Many of the men had the old Flint lock guns
                            which were in this rain, utterly useless. The writer
                            saw two or three boys break their guns over the
                            fence, after several attempts to fire them.Rutledge's battery was planted on the hill just to
                            the right of the road, and opened with two or three
                            shots only, our own men being in danger of his
                            shots, he fired no more. While in this position Capt
                            Rutledge had his horse killed under him by a cannon
                            shot from the enemy. Gen Carroll formed his brigade
                            in line just under cover of the ridge and awaited
                            orders. The morning was dark, the smoke from the
                            guns was beaten back by the rain, and settling on
                            the ground increased the gloom. By this time the
                            19th Tenn was in the edge of the woods and many of
                            our boys had on home made blue jeans cloths. We had
                            driven the 10th Indiana back into the woods, and the
                            4th KYKentucky regiment came to their assistance, and was
                            commanded by Col Frey and was nto more than thirty
                            or forty yards from us. Unfortunately Gen
                            Zollicoffer owing to the darkness of the morning,
                            mistook the 4th KYKentucky regiment for one of his own, passing
                            through our regiment he rode up to that of the enemy
                            and said to Col Frey "We must not fire on our
                            friends," to whichFishing Creek Battlefield.A hand-drawn map of the Fishing Creek
                                Battlefield.Camp Beech Grove.A hand-drawn map of Camp Beech
                                Grove.REV. DAVID SULLINS, D. D.A portrait of Rev. David Sullins.1862 Jan 19thCol Frey replied, "I will not if I know it." Just
                            then Maj Fog of Zollicoffer's staff discovered they
                            were Federals and fired at Col Frey hitting his
                            horse. Immediately a shot from the head of Frey's
                            regiment hit Gen Zollicoffer in in the breast killing him
                                    instantly. This was all done in a few minits. Col
                            Cummings had been ordered by Gen Zollicoffer as he
                            passed our regiment to cease firing, and all this
                            time the 19th Tenn was receiving a galling fire from
                            the 4th KYKentucky without returning it, and in the confusion
                            the regiment fell back a short distance in some
                            disorder. The enemy pressed forward capturing the
                            body of Gen Zollicoffer and also that of Lieut Baily
                            Peyton who was killed at the same time. Lieut Peyton
                            was one of Zollicoffers staff. The 25th Tenn came to
                            our relief and we checked for the time any further
                            advance of the enemy.Here Col Cummings took command of the brigade &
                            Col Walker that of the regiment. The 9th Ohio
                            reinforced the 10th Indiana and 4th KYKentucky and drove our two regiments out of the
                            woods back some distance when Col Stanton of the
                            25th fell severely wounded. The 28th Tenn came to
                            our help, we charged the enemy driving them back but
                            a short distance, where we took shelter behind an
                            old fence and kept up a heavy fire for some time.
                            The roar of musketry and cannon seemed to us a
                            considerable battle. The enemy again reinforced
                            their right and began a flank movement and forced
                            our entire left wing back on the top of the ridge.
                            Wood's 16th AlaAlabama and Powell's 29th Tenn coming in were
                            unable to check the now advancing foe. The whole
                            line now gave way and left the field in wild
                            confusion and disorder.1862 Jan 19thAs we went into the battle, and after having driven
                            the Federals from the open fields, we picked up a
                            Yankee over coat and put it on for the rain was cold
                            and falling fast. When nearly to the woods we spread
                            our coat on the ground and one of our wounded, who
                            with our help could get no further, lay down upon it
                            to die. The wounded were taken from the field as
                            fast as could be done, some left at the field
                            hospital, others were taken on to camp and from
                            there to Montecello. The last one we helped on this
                            sad morning, was Charley Clemonson of Co "E" 19th
                            Tenn, who fell mortally wounded, about half way up
                            the ridge after we had been driven from the woods.
                            Pink Henderson, Clube Perry and myself were carrying
                            Charley on a blanket. We had just reached the yard
                            of the log cabin on the hill side where was our
                            hospital. All were in the house that could be gather
                            in, and we had to lay Charley down on the ground.
                            Our men were now hurrying by as rapidly as they
                            could, the road and woods were full all in hot haste
                            to be gone. Woods' AlaAlabama regiment was trying to make some show of
                            resistance but was as powerless as a straw in the
                            wind.As the Federals began descending the hill and before
                            reaching the field hospital, we having done all we
                            could, retired in as good order and as quickly as we
                            could. Poor Charley was dying when we laid him down.
                            We can never forget the sad, anxious expression of
                            his face as we left him in the last sad trial of the
                            battle of life, dying alone desertd by all whome he
                            thought were friends, left on the cold ground with
                            naught but the cold rain to wash the cold sweat of death
                            from his brow.1862 Jan 19thCharley we hope"The blood that flowed from your noble
                                    heartOn the spot where you nobly perishedWas drank by the earch as a SacramentIn the holy cause you cherished."The battle fought and lost, we made our way to camp
                            in the bend of the river closely pursued by the
                            enemy, and by 3 P.M they began shelling our
                            encampment. They planted a battery just above us, on
                            a hill in full command of the river and of our
                            works. Our guns replied from one or two batteries,
                            and a short intervals the two armies kept shelling
                            during the entire evening.We are sorry we can not give the names of all who
                            were wounded in our regiment. John L. Rhea had two or three
                                    balls pass through his clothing. We give the names of all who were killed,
                            but can not of the wounded and missing.KilledWm DunlopCo"A"Serg MiddletonCo"H"""Isac Carmack""I"Lieut J. Conly""B"Leander Welch""Lieut James Carlton ""G"Josiah Woodall""Joseph Smith""D"Carroll Carmack""K"Charley Clemmonson""E"1862 Jan 19WoundedAbner VernonCo"C"Sam CoxCo"C"Martin Harr""S.G. Edgeman ""H"James Campbell""D"Moneyham""K"R.P. Short""David Roller Marshal " """D"Billie Vestal""E"James Webb""C"James Powers""A"Lafayette Barker""Johnson Andy G""K"CapturedJohn BakerCo"C"Abner VernonCo"C"Lafayette Baker""R.C. Crozier""E"John Whit""E"DiedLieut G.W. HullCo"C"David RollerCo"D"John Jordan""Martin Harr""C"W.H. Barger""""George Grayham""James Webb""Dr J.E. Dulaney our surgeon remained with our wounded
                            on the field and was captured.Our loss in the agregate in the engagement was RegimentKilledWoundedCaptured15 Miss441532916 AlaAlabama951217 Tenn1125219 "1122320 "33591825 "10281728 "34529 "51210Total12630896Our Salvation1862 Jan 19In the killed, captured & wounded five hundred
                            and thirty. Martin Harr, Lafayett Baker and James
                            Webb died in hospital at Monticello from wounds.
                            Lieut G.W. Hull, John Jordan and W.H. Barger died in
                            camp before the battle came off.As a regiment, this was our first engagement with the
                            enemy, and while they were no better off in point of
                            experience than we, they were decidedly so as to
                            arms and numbers. They were no doubt better drilled
                            then we were. It has been said of Gen Zollicoffer
                            that his life, his mental make up and trend of
                            thought were opposed to that of the Military. JohnsonJohnston in the life of his Father Gen Albert
                            Sidney JohnsonJohnston, says of Gen Zollicoffer, "he could not
                            drill a squad himself, nor was his brigade ever
                            drilled or put into a line of battle by any one,
                            until the morning of the memorable battle of
                            Fhishing Creek." To these causes only can be
                            attributed our defeat. For we know that no more patriotic and courageous blood never
                            coursed through the veins of any men than flowed through
                            those of Zollicoffer's brigade. They were willing
                            and ready but not prepared to meet more than their
                            equal. But a few days before the battle of Fishing
                            Creek the Steamer "Noble Ellis" came up from
                            Nashville with provisions and clothing for the men
                            and had not yet returned. Her presense wasOur
                            SalvationDuring the evening all the men were in the ditches
                            and remained until dark, when a detail was left to
                            be on the look out and the rest of the men returned
                            to their cabins to prepare meals, for we had not
                            eaten any thing since the evening before. We had
                            plenty to cook. My mess had supper ready, hot
                            coffee, hot biscuit meat & all spread upon a
                            rudely constructed table, in our comfortable
                            quarters.We were hungry and were just preparing to satisfy our appetites,
                            when orders came ringing down the line of cabins
                            fall in line quickly and quietly as possible. Leave
                            every thingh but guns and accouterments, clothing,
                            napsack, haversack, canteens, blankets, leave all in
                            camp. X we came pouring out of our huts, those whoe
                            had eaten feeling well, but many had not, of which
                            number was our mess.How we did hate to leave that steaming hot coffee and
                            biscuit, we could not refrain from casting one long
                            begrudging look at the table as we filed out into
                            the dark to go whither we knew not.Night of Suspense.1862 Jan 19After we had left camp and had gotten to the river
                            the realization of our misfortune came crashing upon
                            the heart like an avalanche, we were retreating.
                            While on the river bank, waiting in the cold and
                            dark, we could not but think of our straw beds and
                            new blankets wood cut and piled up in the cabin
                            & the warm fire we left burning we are on the
                            river bank in our compact mass of excited and
                            confused humanity. Thousands were crowded there
                            waiting, each his turn to get on the Noble Ellis as
                            she crossed and recrossed.The enemy just a little over a mile behind who from
                            their battery above us on the hill, kept constantly
                            shelling the boat as she crossed back and forth with
                            her excited fugitive loads. The Cavalrymen were
                            hooping and hallowing to drive their horses into the
                            river to swim them over. A few and very few of the
                            horses ever crossed, many of them were perhaps
                            drowned, but the greater part of them remained and
                            were captured.Here were Artillerymen without their artillery,
                            Teamsters without their teams and Cavalrymen afott.
                            What a racket and confusion reigned here and right
                            in the face of the enemy.1862 Jan 19thA hundred of the enemy could have captured Gen
                            Crittenden's whole Army. If one gun had been fired
                            just behind us hundreds doubtless would have been
                            pushed into the river. The enemy must have thought
                            we were reinforcing. At last we were all over,
                            landing the last boat load at day break. From the
                            Mill Springs side of the river we could see our
                            encampment plainly. And not before sun up did the
                            enemy begin an approach to our works, nor until
                            after they saw the smoke and flames rising from the
                            burning boat.As the Noble Ellis went up in smoke we could but feel
                            sad, for she had remained and rescued us but lost
                            her own existenceGeneral Thomas became a
                                    distinguished and decorated distinguished
                                    Federal General in the after days of the war
                                    but he certainly showed little generalship
                                    on this occasion. He could and ought to have
                                    captured the whole Confederate force.Chapter IV.January 20th we took our last farewell look at Beech
                        Grove and Mill Springs. We turned our faces sadly and
                        sorrowfully southward and beheld in the distance a long
                        journey hitherto unparalleled, through a rough, barren,
                        and unfriendly country. We needed sympathy but received
                        none; save that from the heavens, which looking down
                        upon our forlorn condition poured out upon us in heavy
                        showers her sympathetic tears but the did not make us
                        feel any more comfortable.Through all day long the rain continued to fall, when
                        late in the evening we passed through Montecello wet,
                        mudy and tired, not only in body but in mind. We
                        presented an appearance to excite pity rather than
                        applause. One mile beyond the town we sad down to rest
                        for the night. We did not pitch our tents for we had
                        none, neither had we blankets to spread upon the cold
                        wet ground upon which we lay and with naught but the
                        leaky clouds for a covering. Having had nothing to eat
                        all day long, we lay down with empty stomachs to dream
                        of the plenty we had left in camp. The commisary did
                        drive up & The next morning we had issued to us an
                        ear of corn to each man (as if we were horses) to parch
                        for breakfast. After building our fires which were very
                        poor for want of wood, and what we had was wet and
                        sobby, we porched our corn in the ashes and ate it and
                        started on our marchThrough the Wilderness.Through the Wilderness1862 January 21stThe long gloomy road this morning stretched its self
                            out to nearly one hundred miles before we could see
                            any visible signs of provisions or comforts of camp
                            life.So all day Tuesday we plodded our weary way, we
                            passed every now and then country homes where there seemed to be plenty but we were none the
                            better off. Night came again to rest our weary limbs
                            and sore feet, but nothing came to satisfy our now
                            keen appetites but a small piece of beef yet warm
                            from the slaughter, no salt, nothing else. As for my
                            self, we did not feel the gnawings of hunger as much
                            as we did in the morning. We roasted our meat by the
                            fire and ate it, and lay down on the rocks and
                            slept. The next morning we ate the remnants left
                            from supper and started on our third days march at
                            the end of which we received beef, salt and
                            meal.We knew how to manage the beef, but how about the
                            meal. We had nothing to put it in, nothing in which
                            to bake it. The meal was issued to us in our hats, in which we mized it up, and
                            baked before the fire on flat rocks, boards, or
                            anything we could find Some drew flour = mixed it
                                    up without salt, or lard, rolled it out in
                                    strings size of a pencil& wounded it
                                    around their ram rods & cooked it before
                                    the fire. We ate and enjoyed our supper, retired for
                            the night feeling beter and thankful. Who knows what
                            they can endure when they are put to the test.The next morning we moved out again feeling weary and
                            worn, for this pouring through the wilderness as we
                            called it, was a rough and tiresome one.Gainsboro1862 January 27thWe reached Gainsboro on the
                            Cumberland river Jan 27th where we were met by a
                            Steamer from Nashville
                            with clothing, provisions & tents.We remained here about ten days resting. We needed
                            rest for our weary bodies and rest for our minds.
                            After crossing the river at Mill Springs many of the
                            men whose homes were in East Tennessee left us and
                            went directly to them, but returned to their
                            respective regiments after a few days stay at home.
                            This made our army small when we reached Gainsboro.
                            From this place we moved down the river to opposite
                                Carthage where we
                            camped for a while. Here we had inspection and
                            drill. We who remained with the army felt anxious to
                            hear from home folks, and to let them know we were
                            yet in the land of the living. The same feeling now
                            was filling each breast that filled the heart of the
                            Poet who wrote "Away from home how welcome theirGlad tidings from afarThat tell of friends forever dearNo matter where we are". Our dishartend and drooping spirits were now
                            beginning to revive. The runaways, as we called them
                            were beginning to return. And we sing He who fights and is not slainLives to fight it O'er again. We picked up courage and our tents and leaving
                            Carthage we headed for Lebanon
                                Tennessee. Lebanon1862 Feb 16As we drew near to Lebanon we could see plainly the
                            differense in the responsive sympathy of the people.
                            We began to receive encouragements and greetings by
                            the way side. For they were in full knowledge of our
                            retreat from Fishing Creek. Grand-mothers, Mothers
                            and sisters came out and greeted us, giving us their
                            blessing to cheer us on our way. No doubt they had
                            sons, husbands, and brothers some where in the
                            Confederate Army. Perhaps some were with us. We
                            passed through Lebanon February the 16th and there
                            we learned of the fall of Fort
                                Donelson, and that Gen Albert Sidney JohnsonJohnston was then in Nashville on his way South with
                            his Army and with
                            whom we would unite at Murfreesboro.Being already somewhat depressed in Spirits, this sad
                            news fell the more heavily upon us and with the
                            tendency to make us feel as if the "Fates" were
                            against us. To us our political firmament began to
                            look dark and dreary. We took hold of this
                            consolation "There is no day but has its share of
                                    lightAnd some where in the dark, there shines a
                                    star at night.And there's no cloud, how ever black and
                                    grimThe does not touch the sun light with its
                                    outer rim." We were told the darkest hour of night is just
                            before the day and soon "The Sun would shine the brighterWhen the clouds had rolled away." With this stimulant of hope, we received new
                            courage and looked forward for a better and brighter day coming.Murfreesboro1862 Feb 18Leaving Lebanon we turned our course towards
                            Murfreesboro where we met Gen. A.S. JohnsonJohnston from Bowling Green KyKentucky with his own men, and with what troops
                            escaped from Fort Donnelson. While we were here all
                            the men who had left us after the Fishing Creek
                            fight came back to their commands.And of all who came to us here, none surprised us
                            more than Billie Vestal whom we had left in
                            Monticello KyKentucky mortally wounded, as we supposed. He was
                            shot through the bowels, the ball entering an inch
                            to the right of his umbilicus and coming out an inch
                            to the right of the spine. he was so very weak he
                            could hardly walk. He had slipped away from the
                            Federal hospital and made for his command. All the
                            sick of Zollicoffer's and Carroll's brigade had
                            reported for duty.Col W.S. Statham of the 15th Miss, who had been
                            absent for some time; returned, and took command of
                            Zollicoffer's brigade. the union of JohnsonJohnston's and Crittenden's forces, now made one of
                            the largest armies that had yet been brought together in
                            Tennessee. The large number of troops now together
                            seemed to infuse life and vigor into all, and made
                            them feel like trying their hand with the enemy
                            again.Here Gen JohnsonJohnston organized the army into brigades and
                            divisions. He made three divisions and Seven
                            brigades with thirty five regiments of infantry
                            besides the Artillery and Cavalry.1862 Feb 20The organization was as follows. Albert Sidney JohnsonJohnston General1st Division.Maj. Gen J.W. HardeeBrigadesBrig. Gen Hindman. with 5
                                        regimentsBrig Gen P. CleburnCleburne with 5 regiments2d DivisionMaj. Gen Geo B. CrittendenBrigadesBrig Gen Carrol'sCol. WS Statham's17th Tenn Col Newman15th Miss Lieut Col25 " " Stanton22d " " " Scheller29 " " Powell19th " Cummings37 " " White20 " " Battle28 " " Murray45 " " Lytle3d DivisionBrig Gen PillowBrigadesBrig Gen Woods with 5
                                        regimentsBrig Gen Bowen with 5
                                        regimentsBrig Gen Breckinridge with 5
                                        regimentsArtilleryCavalry12 Batteries7 regiments 5 Battalions.1862 Feb 25thThe sad news of the disaster at Fishing Creek, the
                            fall of Fort Donnelson, and the evacuation of Bowling Green spread like
                            wild fire over all the South. A great many of the
                            Newspapers were full of epithets and denunciations
                            of the direst kind against Gen JohnsonJohnston. The situation did look gloomy at this
                            time, and the Newspaper men thought perhaps if they
                            had been at the front things would have gone
                            differently. They forgot that enduring the hard
                            ships of camp life, and fighting the battles at the
                            front were much more difficult, than sitting around
                            the comfortable fire side and fighting them on
                            paper.Notwithstanding the tirade of abuse heaped upon Gen JohnsonJohnston by the Press, the Soldiers who were at the
                            front and who knew JohnsonJohnston loved him. They did not censure him, nor
                            blame any one for the sad changes in affairs, but
                            had the utmost confidence in him as their leader.
                            Often those who censure most are the ones who do
                            nothing to bring about that for which they condemn
                            others for not doing.Chapter V.Historic GroundGen JohnsonJohnston having completed his organization of the
                            Army and all the absentees having returned, began
                            preparations for a grand move South. He issued the
                            following orderHeadquarters Western DepartMurfreesborough
                                Tenn Feb 28th 1862The columns will resume the march tomorrow
                                morning, and continue it from day to day by
                                    Shelbyville, Fayetteville and Decatur AlaAlabama. The march so arranged as to make
                                about 15 miles a day, so long as the roads
                                permitBy Order of Gen JohnsonJohnston { W.W. Mackall Asst Adj GenSo on the morning of the 29th we moved out from
                            Murfreesborough, passed on through Shelbyville and
                            reached FayetvillMarch the 4th.
                            Crossing "Elk" river on a stone bridge we piched our
                            tents onHistoric Ground,Gen Jackson's old encampment in the years long gone
                            by, where we remained for several days.After leaving Fayetteville,
                            we had gone but a short distance when we ascended a
                            high ridge on which we travelled as far as Athens, AlaAlabama. This ridge was almost barren and destitute
                            of water. The evening of our first encampment on
                            this ridge, we encountered a regulary little Clyclonecyclone with a heavy rain.Storm in the woods1862 March 4thWe halted in a strip of woods and had just gotten all
                            our tents up, when the storm came.The wind was very heavy. Trees were broken off and
                            blown down, and limbs were strewen here and there in
                            our camp. Not a single tent stood the storm. They
                            were all blown down, and we took the rain, holding
                            on to our tents to keep them from blowing away.On reaching Athens all our
                            tents and camp equipage were sent on a head of us
                            for some purpose we never knew what, leaving us to
                            take the rains which were falling heavely and had
                            been for two or three days past, just coming down in
                            torrents.Where we were the country was so low and flat that it
                            was mostly covered with water, so that at night, we
                            had to sit down and lean against trees and bushes to
                            sleep. We crossed the river at Decatur AlaAlabama on the rail road bridge, and camped one mile
                            beyond the town on the RR. Here we remained two or
                            three days. Push was now inaugurated as the order of
                            the day, every thing and every body seemed to be in
                            a hurry. On the 15th,
                            we moved out for Corinth
                                Miss, where we pitched our tents on the 20th.While JohnsonJohnston was pushing his men westward to Corinth,
                                Beauregard was
                            hurrying from Jackson
                                Tennessee to meet JohnsonJohnston, and Bragg,
                            with is excellently drilled and disciplined men, was
                            on his way from the South.Gen Vandorn had been ordered from the trans
                            Mississippi with 17,000 men, also to Corinth.Corinth1862 March 20thWhen these three Generals met at Corinth, they had an
                            army without organization. Gen JohnsonJohnston was the Senior Officer and proceeded as
                            quickly as possible to organize forming Corps which,
                            up to this time had not existed in our Army. There
                            were made three Corp. The 1st Corps under Gen L. Polk 9.130" 2d " under Gen B. Bragg....13.589" 3d " under " W.J. Hardee...6789 with brigades as a reserve under Gen
                                    J.C. Breckenridge, composed of Trabue's,
                                    Bowen's and Statham's brigades. 6439Statham's brigade.15th MissCol. W.S. Statham20th TennCol. Battle22d "" Scheller28th "" Murray19th Tenn" Cummings45 "" LytleIt was said that upon the arrival of Beauregard at
                            Corinth, Gen JohnsonJohnston tendered him the command of the Army, but
                            Gen Beauregard, the brave and good soldier as he
                            was, refused it, partly perhaps on account of ill
                            health, and probably prefering to serve his country
                            as a subordinate and follow the great leader Gen JohnsonJohnston. He felt physically unable to assume so
                            trying and responsible a position.The Federals, under Gen
                                Grant, had concentrated a large force at
                                Pitsburg landing on
                            the Tennessee river about twenty miles from
                            Corinth.Gen Buel, with an other
                            force of twenty five thousand, was on his way to
                            join Grant. Grang had already fifty thousand men,
                            while JohnsonJohnston had only about forty thousand. JohnsonJohnston was very anxious to attack Grant before
                            Buel could arrive, and therefore could not wait the
                            arrival of Gen Vandorn,
                            who could not reach him for three or four days. So
                            the morning of April the 4th Gen JohnsonJohnston moved out for the front, taking two
                            parallel roads leading to Pitsburg landing which
                            roads came together about one and a half miles south
                            west of Shiloh Church. Hardee moved out first and
                            camped on the road near Macky's. Bragg mobed on the
                            road leading to Monteray, followed by Polk and
                            Breckinridge.During Saturday we moved cautiously all day, and at
                            night we halted and rested in close proximity to the
                            enemy.The Battlefield.1862 April 4thThe Battle field.The battle field formed a parallelagram of about
                            eaqual sides. The river and our line of battle
                            formed two opposite sides and Owl Creek below and
                            Lick Creek above the other two opposite sides. The
                            two creeks entered the river about three miles
                            apart, and our line was formed about three miles out
                            from the river. The ground within this boundry was
                            very uneven, being interspersed with ridges,
                            ravines, and marshy places, with afew clearings in
                            the heavy wood lands. There were several small
                            streams, some running into the creeks and some
                            directly into the river.Shiloh1862 April 5thShiloh church is on the road leading from Corinth to
                            Pitsburg landing and
                            where it crosseds
                            the road from Purdy to Hamburg. The church stood
                            about 2 1/2 miles out from the river. There were
                            several roads passing through here.Grant had formed his
                            lines with Sherman on his
                            right wing with five divisions; the right of which
                            extended from near Owl creek down the Purdy road,
                            and by the Shiloh Church, and commanding all of these crossings. Prentis and Stewart were on
                                Sherman's left and
                            further on to their left were Hurlbut and Wallace
                            whose lines extended to near Lick Creek.JohnsonJohnston on Saturday evening had blazed out his
                            lines through the woods, right in the very face of
                            the enemy, and after dark formed his lines so
                            silently that the enemy though in Cannon shot range
                            did not hear him.On our line Hardee occupied the left wing Bragg was
                            in the center, and Polk on our right. Breckenridge
                            was on the right and in rear of Polk. Here we lay
                            all night quietly resting and waiting for the storm
                            next morning, like the horse we could almost sniff
                            the coming battle already. The two Armies lay face
                            to face all Saturday night; the enemy like a wild
                            boar in his den not aroused by any alarm of unseen
                            danger, while JohnsonJohnston like a panther hid in his jungle waited
                            oppertunity to spring for deadly combat on his
                            unsuspecting foe.1862 April 6thGrant certainly was not dreaming of the near approach
                            of JohnsonJohnston. While Grant did not have his men in line
                            the were at the front near by in camp; his videtls
                            a sleep as to JohnsonJohnston's movements.Early Sunday morning, JohnsonJohnston moved his
                                men with as much order as if going on a
                            grand review.The enemy were completely surprised. Only a few
                            having finished breakfast, some were yet in bed and
                            asleep, and none ready or expecting such an attack.
                            The enemy, whose encampment our brigade so suddenly
                            and so rudely entered, so early and with out notice,
                            were some what indignant and were thrown into great
                            confusion. But they rallied and made an attempt to
                            give us a soldierly reception. Our men kept pressing
                            forward with a determination not only to gain
                            ground, but to hold all that was gained. The enemy
                            under a continuous fire of musketry and artillery
                            fell back on their second line, which had been
                            formed and for awhile checked our advance.Hardee on the left drove the enemy back on his second
                            line held by McClenard, which enabled Hardee now to
                            strike Sherman on the
                            flank forcing him to retire with considerable loss
                            of men and several guns. Gen Johnson led Jackson's
                            Stewarts Bowen's and Statham's brigades in a
                            successful charge on our right. They advanced "En
                            echelon" with the batteries in full play. The
                            resistance was vigorous and the contest was fierce.
                            Dead and wounded marked the ground over which they
                            struggled.1862 April 6thThe enemy was now driven back all along his line his
                            left and his right farther than the center.Here Brag had hard fighting contending with
                            disadvantage of ground, and seemingly a superior
                            force. The fighting was desperate all along the
                            line. The roar of musketry and artillery, the
                            bursting of shells the cracking of grape and
                            canister against the timber and the zip and whiz of
                            minnie balls rendered the scene on the beggars
                            descriptionBetween twelve oclock and one in the day the enemy
                            occupied a position on an eminence
                            on our right where they had collected a heavy mass
                            of troops. Up to this time there had been four hours
                            of hard fighting, almost an incessant blaze of fire
                            all along the line. We had driven the enemy back on
                            our right to this eminence, where they had massed
                            their troops. It was held by Hulbert who had been
                            reinforced by three brigades, and there they stood
                            in double columns defying every attempt of ours to
                            dislodge them.Gen JohnsonJohnston had ordered Statham's (our) brigade and
                            Bower's joined by Chalmer's of Wither's division, to
                            charge and drive the enemy from this ridge. Statham
                            was on a ridge opposite to that of the enemy and
                            about two hundred yards from them. To charge the
                            enemy at this point, our brigade had to cross this
                            exposed ridge, descend the slope and ascend the one
                            the enemy occupied commanded and raked by their
                            deadly fire. Here we stood delivering and receiving
                            a fire which Gov Harris said was as heavy as any he
                            had ever heard and as heavy as any in the war. We
                            could not drive them by our fire and to charge them
                            seemed like going into the very jaws of death. This
                            position was called the "Hornet's Nest,"Hornet's Nest1862 April 6thOf which Gov Harris said, "About one oclock in the
                            evening, JohnsonJohnston was informed that our extreme right had
                            encountered such resistance as prevented further
                            advance. Gen JohnsonJohnston repaired to it at once. We formed our
                            right wing posted on a ridge, while upon an other
                            parallel ridge in easey musket range the enemy were
                            in great force. Here the firing was kept up with
                            great energy by both armies for an hour."Here Gen JohnsonJohnston remained upon the line more exposed to the
                            fire than any of the Soldiers during the time. Gen JohnsonJohnston rode down the line in front of the men,
                            with his hat in one hand and said to the men, "They
                            are stuborn we must give them the bayonet, I will
                            lead you." Then the whole line moved with a shout
                            towards the enemy's lines, with a rapid and a
                            reistless step when a sheet of flame burst forth
                            from the Federal strong hold, and blazed along the
                            ridge. What a roar of cannon and musketry! What a
                            storm of lead and iron hail!Shiloh Battlefield.Hand-drawn map of Shiloh
                                Battlefield.Death of Gen JohnsonJohnston1862 April 6thThe Confederate line seemed to wither, to melt away,
                            and the dead and dying strewed the dark ravine.But it did not falter not for an instant. On they
                            went up the hill. The crest was gained and the enemy
                            put to rout. What a baptism of fire!!Gen JohnsonJohnston, in this charge, had one of his shoe soles
                            torn away, and several balls had gone through his
                            clothing. Although the enemy were driven from their
                            strong position, yet as they retired they fired
                            volley after volley at us. Gen JohnsonJohnston was sitting on his horse watching them,
                            when a minnie ball from one of these retiring
                            vollies did its deadly work, severing an artery in
                            his leg. Just at this moment a Federal battery from
                            an other point opened on us, and JohnsonJohnston told Gov.
                                Harris to order Statham to charge the
                            battery. Govener Harris did so and rode rapidly back
                            to JohnsonJohnston just in time to catch him as he reeled
                            from loss of blood, and began falling from his
                            horse.Gov Harris caught him in his arms and lifted him to
                            the ground. He was carried back some two hundred
                            yards just in the rear of our brigade (Statham's),
                            where he expired in a short time, his head resting
                            in the lap of Gov. Harris. The General's horse was
                            hit four times, and he was led from the field scarcely able
                            to walk.Gen JohnsonJohnston had been at the front at other points
                            repeatedly and at one time was in pistol shot of
                                Gen Sherman. Yet some
                            have blamed Statham's brigade with his death because
                            he had led it with the other two brigades in this
                            charge. The charge was endured, and had been
                            sucessful, and all were but observing the fleeing
                            foe, when the cruel "Fates" directed this random
                            shot, cut the brittle thread of life and the great
                            soldier fell, but fell in the hour of victory which his
                                    matchless general ship had planned and his
                                    brave battallion had won.Shiloh1862 April 6thDeath was riding over every portion of the field
                            claiming his victims by the thousands, and gloating
                            over the triumph of every hissing missile. It is
                            true that upon no other portion of the field did
                            Death gather in such a harvest as in this charge in
                            whcih JohnsonJohnston fell, the last one ever led by him. We
                            must pause, shed one tear and go on.Immediately after the death of JohnsonJohnston, General Beauregard assumed the command of
                            the army, and continued the battle.Up to this hour two oclock in the evening there had
                            been scarcely an intermission or a lull in the
                            battle; but now, an occasional pause was observed in
                            the roar of battle. The right and the left of the
                            enemy's lines had been driven back, while the center
                            seemed to hold its own.Here Gen Ruggles had concentrated twelve battries in
                            front of Prentis who was stubornly holding the
                            center of the enemy's lines. Hardee had driven back
                            the enemy before him, killing Gen W.H. Wallace which
                            uncovered Gen Prentis' right, while Polk and
                            Breckenridge closing in on his left, cut Prentis
                            off, forcing him to surrender with about three
                            thousand men. This was late in the evening about
                            four or five oclock. Gen Prentiss surrendered his
                                    sword to Lieut Col F.M. Walker - who was in
                                    command of the 19th Tenn regiment, Col
                                    Cummin being wounded had left the field,
                                    also Maj Fulkerson, Wm King of Co C was
                                    color bearer & kept them up where all
                                    could see.Surrender of Prentis1862 April 6thSome of Breckenridge's men now exchanged their guns
                            for Enfield rifles captured from Gen Prentis. A few
                            of the Old 19th Tennessee exchanged guns.
                            Immediately after this Statham and Bowen pressed
                            forward and gained possession of the crest of a hill
                            over looking the river, and not far above the
                            landing, where they endured for a while most
                            terrific fire from the enemy's gun boats. McClenard
                            being now exposed on account of Hurlbut's retreating
                            column was assailed by Gen Hardee.Sherman, who was greatly
                            reduced by eight hours hard fighting, was driven
                            back on the hills, with his right resting on Owl
                            Creek, near enough for him to command the bridge,
                            across the creek just below the junction with Snake
                            Creek. Here the battle ended for the day, about five
                            oclock or a little after in the evening, leaving the
                            enemy in his last line, overlooking and crowding the
                            river.Our last was in four hundred yards of the bridge, the enemy's only crossing of
                            Owl Creek; while our right rested on the river above
                            exposed to the enemy's jun boats, but being too
                            close to be used withouth endangering their own
                            men.It was late in the evening when Prentis was captured,
                            but the battle continued, although the men were
                            tired and exhausted from the fatigue of the day's
                            struglle. Quiet did not reign until after dark.Night on the battlefield1862 April 6thIt was nownight on the battlefieldand the
                            men being sleepy began adjusting themselves for
                            sleep. But could they? The blood stained field
                            covered with dead and dying, sadly echoed with the
                            groans of the suffering. During the night the leaves
                                    of under brush caught fire frim a bursting
                                    shell thrown from the Gunboats & burned
                                    over considerable ground occupied by the
                                    dead & wounded of both armies. It was
                                    plainly seen next morning that many had been
                                    burned who were then alive. The dead
                                    already, wer only scorched while the living
                                    were blistered. Oh! the ghastly sight
                                    presented next day over the burnt field,-
                                    clothing partly burned away & hair
                                    singed, eye brows gone, eye blood shattered
                                    & swollen lips, showed plainly in the
                                    destruction of a Plutonic War. God, viewing
                                    the scene with a pittying eye= just after
                                    midnight send a refreshing rain, putting out
                                    the fire & cooling many a feverished
                                    brain. We had driven the enemy from every position
                            he had take durning th day. They had lost thousands
                            in killed, wounded and captured. We too, had lost
                            heavily, and although we were the Victors, it was at
                            a terrible sacrifice. The crash of minie balls,
                            grape, canister, bursting of shells, and the cry of
                            the wounded for water and for help all made a scene
                            of pandimonium. When the battle ended for the day,
                            our whole line fell back about one mile, & our
                            tired boys laid down to rest with their guns for a
                            pillow.They could not sleep. Their minds were too much
                            occupied with the results of the day. Wondering who
                            were killed, who were wounded, and as they looked
                            upon their thined ranks, they were astonished, and truly thankful they had
                            escaped amidst such a storm of lead and iron hail. "'Tis well the night came onTo cloud the scene of strifeWith darkness, and with rainWash the blood stained earth to night."Yes thousands were sleeping, but they were those who
                            would not awake in the coming morning.Shiloh1862 April 6th
                                & 7thThe stillness of the night, with its low murmuring
                            wail of distress that seemed to hover close to the
                            ground, was broken only now and then by the whir and
                            boom of a stray shot from the enemy's gun boats,
                            which were fired at short intervals through the
                            entire night, as if tolling the lone hours of the
                            funeral watch.Sadness did not express the deep anxious longings of
                            our own hearts as the hours went by. While we were
                            quiet the enemy were busy. Buel had arrived with the
                            twenty five thousand fresh troops and was hurrying
                            to put them into position, and with them our tired
                            but brave boys must contend in the morning. Of
                            these, Nelson and Crittenden were put on their left
                            and were in front of Polk and Breckenridge, McCook
                            in the center, and the rest of their men were in
                            front of our left to contend with Hardee.Breckenridge opened the attack the morning of the 7th
                            on our right against Nelson, and the tide of battle
                            rolled down the line to our left Breckenridge's
                            tired men rushed with such vim against Grants new
                            men as to utterly astonish them driving Nelson at
                            once from his position.A battery coming in hot hast to Nelson's assistance
                            bearly escaped capture at the hands of Cheathams who
                            had at that moment come to our half.At this hour we had gained but little ground and were
                            barely holding that little on our right, while on
                            our left, where the enemy had posted most of their
                            men, we could only hold our own.1862 April 7thAbout ten oclock (10.AM) Breckenridge sent Statham's
                            and Bowen's brigades of his division to Shiloh
                            Church, where with Hindman's and part of CleburnCleburne's division under Hardee, the met McCook
                            whom they repulsed.Gen Sherman after the
                            battle of Shiloh was
                                over, in speaking of McCook's advance at
                            this point near the church said "I saw Willich's 32d
                            Ind regiment advance upon a thicket of white oaks
                            behind which I knew the enemy were in great force,
                            and enter it in fine style. Then arose the severest
                            musketry fire I ever heard for at least twenty
                            minuts when the splendid regiment of Williche's had
                            to fall back." The old 19th Tenn was at the
                            reception of this charge of the enemy.To days fighting was spasmodic. charging here &
                            there with much maneuvering. The last hard struggle
                            was near Shiloh Church where the worn out
                            Confederates had successfully contended against the
                            enemy. We were gaining no ground, nor were we
                            loosing ground.Gen Beauregard about two oclock in the evening
                            ordered a halt, when seemingly by mutual consent the
                            battle eneded. Just at this moment as the firing
                            subsided all along the line, the enemy were
                            reinforced by three fresh brigads from
                            Wood's division but they did not renew the attack.
                            Beauregard at this time ordered our (Statham's)
                            brigade with a Kentucky brigade to form at the junction of the roads - the
                            one from Monterey to Pittsburg landing and the other
                            from Purdy to Hamburg, these two roads cross each
                            other at Shiloh Church, to meet any advance of the
                            enemy, and to act as a rear guard to the now
                            retreating Army. These two brigades camped Monday
                            night on the battle field near where the fight began
                            Sunday morning. Tuesday morning as we moved back
                            nearly three miles to Mackey's where we remained
                            three days.1862 April 7thReader it is useless to attempt a
                                discription of the battle field of
                            Shiloh. Language would fail to portray it as it was.
                            The dead were piled on each other in many places. In
                            the center of the battle field was a pond, in and
                            around which were many dead men and several dead
                            horses, were either killed there or had been wounded
                            and had gone there for water and had died, which
                            could truly be called the "Death Pond" of Shiloh.
                            All over the field the dead lay side by side, the
                            brave "who wore the blue and those who wore the
                            Gray" now no longer foes.The wounded of both armies, who yet remained on the
                            field, showed the true manhood and brotherly feeling
                            by helping each other as far as possible, consoling
                            each other, and sharing each others woes.The Blue and the Gray had fallen on each other and
                            lay as if sleeping in each others embrace.1862 April 7thDead horses, broken ambulances and shattered caissons
                            lay thickly strewn over all the field, all of which
                            made up the sad, sad scene. We could see but a part
                            of the sad wreck. The loss in the aggregate God only
                            knew, and the morning of Eternity only, will
                            reveal.Gen Albert Sidney JohnsonJohnston had been killed, Gen Hardee was wounded
                            after having his clothes torne by several bullets,
                            and Gen. Breckenridge was hit twice with spent
                            balls.The Old 19th Tenn was in some of the hottest
                            contests. Our brigade was the second in the list of
                            casualties. The brigade lost one hundred and thirty
                            seven killed, six hundred and twenty seven wounded,
                            and supposed captured forty five.While there are always some amusing incidents that
                            occur on a battlefield, there are many sad and
                            pathetic scenes, during the strife of battle.During the first day's fighting John Easterling of
                            Company "C," poor fellow, was wearing a blue shade
                            of home made clothing. A piece of shell tore away
                            the greater part of his lower jaw, he could not
                            speak and wanting help, he went up to Lieut B.F.
                            Moore of Company "I" the Lieut did not recognize
                            him, and thinking he was a wounded Federal spoke
                            sharply to him, ordering him to the rear, where help
                            could be had, where he died very soon.Casualties1862 April 7thOur two brigades, Statham's and the Kentucky, after
                            finishing the work assigned them, moved on to
                            Corinth Friday noon and went into camp.We are sorry we could not obtain a correct list of
                            casualties of our regiment, but give as far as we
                            are able names of the killed and wounded.It will not be out of place to
                                say here that J.M Sims 2d Lieut of Co "F" was
                                wounded & left on the field & was
                                captured. After we had returned to Corinth, Mr.
                                B.M. Sims a brother, came to the regiment, &
                                learning that the Lieutenant was wounded &
                                left on field of battle set out at once to find
                                his brother. He was found about mid night in
                                Federal Hospital, unable to walk &
                                suffering. Mr Sims slipped his brother out of
                                the tent, & carried him on his back that
                                night, out through the picket lines & out
                                five miles before he stopped to rest. They lay
                                there the rest of the night. Next morning they
                                were picked up by Forrest's Cavalry & taken
                                into Corinth, & to the hospital.Our lossKilled 1,728Wounded 8,012Captured 95910,699Killed.Powers JamesCo"A"Godby JohnCo"A"Leath T.J.Co"E"Rowe Lewis " "Willette Capt Zeb T.""B"Allen Geo WM""F"Bains John""Forner Isac""O'Conner John""C"Chase J.T.""G"Vance Sam E Sergt""" "Easterling John""York Charles""Roberts Isac""Check E.W.""H"Lyons Dan""Cooper Geo A""""I"Montague J.R.""Bradford M"DWalker Capt T.H.""Kennon M""Boofer Wm R""Courtney N.""K"Keeling Frank""Bradley Sam""E"Wolfenberger K.S.""Cunningham S.H.""Etter CC""Curran Connelly""E WebsterWounded.Cumming Col. D.H.Newport JF.Co"D"Fulkerson Maj. AbeShaver J.W.""White JohnCo"C"Ward Wm""Roberts Jack""Johnson B.J.S.""Craig Al""E"Harr Robert""Erps Adrin""Sims Lieut J.M.""F"Pile John""Rhea Lieut J.A""G"Wallace Lieut J.A.""D"Potterfield Wm""Lincoln John""Buckner J.M""H"Wright ThomasWilkins Lieut Doc""Carmack John""K"Speck Lawrence P&c""Webb Lieut BenCo"C"Brewer Clark""I"Roberts Sam""Duncan Sam""G"Johns B.J.""Willhom John"G"&diedGray Al""Gaby Sam""B"Pactol Sam" "C"King E R"BMassengill Febz -Co"G"Died at luka MissMoore Jim C-"G"died at Bronville
                                    MissBrewer Wm "G"Died at Mobile AlaAlabamaChapter VI.Around CorinthTwelve long eventful months had now gone by since the
                            Confederate States began battling for a position in
                            the galaxy of nations. And these months had not
                            passed with out results.They had sealed the destinies of thousands of her
                            noble sons. They had brought blight to once happy
                            homes and loving hearts. And grim master Death had
                            been busy hanging crops on the door knobs of those
                            who had gone out in defense of their Southern homes;
                            thus reminding the loved ones there, that the vacant
                            chair around the fire side, would never be filled by
                            them again.None but God knows the thoughts of the dying as the
                            last light of earth was receding from vision, could
                            they have been registered would have been, no doubt, "I have, for my country fallenWho will care for mother now." All the men in the army had enlisted for only
                            one year, and now that year had ended, and the war
                            but begun. Now comes the true test of patriotism. At
                            the beginning we did not know all that was
                                ment by the word war, but now we
                            knew it in all its horrors. Our time was out and we
                            could have honorably gone home. But no. When we
                            thought of home and what brought us out, we could
                            not return as yet.Reorganization1862 May 10th"O I long to see your MotherAnd the loving ones at home,But I can neaver leave our
                                bannerTill in honor I can come."We reenlisted, and that for the war, whether long or
                            short. On May the 10th the Confederate Army
                            reenlisted till the end. In
                            theReorganizationmany changes were made,
                            in their officers of the regiment and also in those
                            of the companies. The following were elected,RegimentalF.M WalkerColonel;Buria F Moore,Lieut Col;R.A. Jarnigan,Major;Arthur Fulkerson,Sergt Maj;Dr. J.E. Delaney,Surgeon" J.E. PyattAsst "A.D. TaylorQuarter MasterJ.H. KennedyCommissaryWm BowlesAdjutantW.J. Worsham, and Rufus Lamb James TynerChief MusiciansCompanies"A"D.A. KennedyCaptain"FM Foust1st Lieut"Thomas Carney2d ""N.P. Nail3d "1862 May 10th"B"J.D. DeadrickCaptain"J.C. Hammer1st Lieut"R.J. Tipton2d ""T.M Brabron3d ""C"W.C. HarveyCaptain"MJ. Miles1st Lieut"A.W. Smith2d ""Wm Miles3d ""D"J.G. FrazierCaptain"S.G.A. Frazier1st Lieut"A.B. Hodge2d ""Thos Cunningham3d ""E"Wm W LackeyCaptain"S.B. Abernathy1st Lieut"Henry A. Waller2d ""Jake L Waller3d ""F"John H. HannahCaptain"Jessee M Sims1st Lieut"J.F. Sharp2d ""Robert Rhea3d ""G"A.L. GammonCaptain"Jas A. Rhea1st Lieut"J.K.P. Gammon2d ""H.D. Hawk3d "1862 May 10th"H"W. Paul McDermotCaptain"Jake H. Kimbrough1st Lieut"Frank S. Hale2d ""Benj F. Hoyle3d ""I"J.D. LivelyCaptain"J.E. Wooding1st Lieut"W.H. Lovejoy2d ""Wm Hale3d ""K"C.W. HeinkillCaptain"J.H. Huffmaster1st Lieut"W.W. Etter2d ""W.B. Miller3d "All the old officers who were not reelected left us
                            for other commands, preferring to be privates under
                            other men than those, over whom they had had
                            command. After we had settled around Corinth, we
                            began fortifyingThe Federals had followed us at a long distance
                            slowly, and had sat down at a safe distance to watch
                                Beauregard.We remained here nearly two months during which time
                            the pickets kept up almost daily a musket at
                            artillery duel.The water we had to use was of the poorest kind, very
                            bad and only accessible by digging holes in the
                            ground one or two feet deep, and allowing them to
                            fill up with seep water. After exposure to the sun
                            but a day or two, the water would be full of wiggle
                            tails. The use of this water soon begain to tell
                            upon the health of the Army. The sick list ran up at
                            a fearful rate, and the mortality increased daily.
                            Beauregard sent the sick away as fast as they could
                            be moved.Death from Sickness.1862 May 20thWhile many died from sickness contracted in camp, a
                            great many died from their wounds received in the
                            battle at Shiloh. We give but a partial list of
                            deaths on the old 19th Tenn from sickness while
                            around Corinth.DiedMcKinney WilliamCo"A"Grant JohnCo"G"Salts John""B"Hampton Wm""Webb Lieut Ben""C"Burnette James""H"Cook John""Graves Wash""Flenor Pete""Duglas H.D.""Roberts Sam""Williams C.F.""Harr Robert""Foster DL""De Pere --- ""B"Hall John M""I"Gray James""Melton A.J.M""Parker L.D.""Langree R Co "K"Cross A.J.""Duncan Wm""Drake Samal""Around Corinth1862 May 25thSoon after Gen Beauregard reached Corinth, Gen
                            Vandorn arrived with seventeen thousand men. He
                            should have reached the battlefield of Shiloh Sunday
                            evening and met Buel's new men, if he had, we would
                            have made it more lively for Grant monday morning
                            than we did. Mention should be
                                made here, of our going out, as we supposed to
                                battle.About the 25th of May Beauregard, began moving all
                            his munitions, and as soon as this was accomplished,
                            the Army began falling back towards Tupelo Mississippi The
                            morning of the 25th Our regiment, the old 19thTenn,
                            was sent down the Mobile & Ohio RR several miles
                            to protect a bridge we thought was threatened by the
                            enemy. The bridge was a cross a creek running
                            through a low swampy country, and in a perfect
                            jungle. In this place we lay for about one week,
                            with scarcely enough of ground above water to lie
                            down and sleep on. The under groth was
                            so thick that just now and then, here and there, the
                            Sun could get through the foliage to give life to
                            the struggling vegetation, dying for the want of sun
                            light. About noon, the 2d day of June, we crawled
                            out from our hiding place in the swamps, and out of
                            the mud and water, on to dry ground, to sun and dry
                            ourselves. We moved out from this place without a
                            single regret, and took the rail road for Baldwin where we stopped but
                            a day. From here we moved on to Tupelo where the Army by this time was
                            encamped.Tupelo1862 June 2dIn the jungle or on the high lands; in camp or on the
                            march; in the rain or stretched out Lizzard liklizard-like taking a sun bath, no jollier set of men
                            could be found than the Old 19th, always willing,
                            ever ready to go where duty called. Gen Beauregard
                            took command of the Army on the field of Shiloh, and
                            finished the battle when he could scarcely keep in
                            his saddle. His ill health was his great impediment.
                            And owing to the continued failure of his health, he
                            turned over the command of the Army to Gen Braxton Brag June the
                            10th 1862. Soon after taking command, Gen Bragg sent
                            a portion of the Army to Vicksburg Mississippi under Gen. Breckenridge, and with
                            the remainder of the Army he returned to Tennessee
                            via Chattanooga. Statham's
                            brigade in which the old 19th Tenn was, was one of
                            the brigades sent to Vicksburg.1862 June 18thJune the 19th Gen Breckenridge received the following
                            orderSpecial Order No } Headquarters Western Dept
                                Tupelo Miss, June 18th 1862Breckenridge's Division of the Army of
                                Mississippi will be prepared to move in light
                                marching order will all possible celerity, with
                                six days rations, 100 rounds of ammunition for
                                small arms and the current supply for field
                                batteries. Brig Gen Preston will report at once
                                to the Commander of the forces for special
                                instructions.By Command of Gen Bragg- Geo W. Brent. Act Chief
                                of Staff.McClung's Battery having been transferred to our
                            brigade, we moved out from Tupelo on the 20th with
                            one division composed of four brigades.Our line of march from Tupelo was north west across
                            the country, through lands not very rich and poorly
                            watered. We suffered for water, often going miles
                            without finding a well, cistern or running stream.
                            The horses suffered alike with the men. We reached
                                Abbeville on the
                            NO&N.W. RR on the 25th June where we rested for
                            a day. Here we took the train and passed through Jackson on to Vicksburg which place was reached on the
                            evening of July 1st 1862.Chapter VII.VicksburgVicksburg, the city on the
                            hills. Like her ancient sister Rome, her foundations
                            are the eternal hills. The hills are called "Walnut
                            Hills," and each one stands alone or seemingly so,
                            while in truth it is a ridge broken along here by
                            deep ravines. The railroad from Jackson finds its
                            way to the wharf through one of these ravines. On
                            these hills we had our large siegsiege guns making a splendid fort, under neath
                                of which was the
                            magazine, deep beneath the reach of the enemy's
                            shells. Vicksburg was a
                            romantic place. Her several hills were covered with
                            beautiful residences, with large yards and full of
                            flowers and shrubery, and gardens growing figs,
                                pomempgranates, artichokes &c
                            not such as we were used to, for they were on trees
                            or shrubery instead of in the ground. We lived well
                            here the scenes and surroundings were so different
                            from any thing we had yet met with. Our encampment
                            was out from the city about two miles. Our water
                            supply for the first few days was from an old pond,
                            full of green moss, and in order to get the water
                            free from moss and filth, we had to dip our vessels
                            carefully into the water and seperate the moss, we
                            were on duty picketing along on the levee about five
                            days and nights in each week. Here again we were
                            under fire of the enemy's gun boats.1862 July 4thThere were two fleets, one above and one below the
                            city. We went on picket the second day after our
                            arrival and remained for several days before
                            returning to camp. We lay all day of the 3d on the
                            levee below the city and remained there all night.
                            We expected the enemy to begin the celebration of
                            the 4th early the next morning by shelling us from
                            the two fleets.Early in the morning of the 4th we moved up from the
                            bottoms on to higher ground, directly under one of
                            our large batteries, and were we were in plain view
                            of both fleets all day.Our most sanguin expectations of a lively day from
                            shot and shell from the enemy's gun boats and morter
                            boates, were sadly disappointed. All was strangely
                            silent.The sun this morning, (the 4th) seemed to spread a
                            pall of silence overy every thing, and not until he had
                                climed the eastern horizon and
                            passed the zenith, was the monatony broken. There
                            had not been a day, not even a Sabbath day, so quiet
                            as this one, so for had been.About two oclock in the evening, one of our large
                            guns sent a shell whizing through the air, inquiring
                            of the enemy why they were so silent.City of Vicksburg.A hand-drawn map of the city of Vicksburg.1862 July 6thWhen one solitary shot from the enemy's lower fleet
                            came in reply and silence reigned again until night
                            spread her dark mantle over all. Constantly the two
                            fleets kept us on the lookout day and night. Shells,
                            two hundred pounders, were bursting over our heads
                            and all around us continually. The air was kept full
                            of flying missiles falling here and there, and often
                            wounding women and children in their homes and on
                            the streets. Shells would go crashing through a
                            residence. The streets were kept torn up by the
                            shells falling in them and going into the ground
                            bursting would tear up the ground. The shells from
                            the mortar boats would come down almost
                            perpendicularly and imbed themselves in the sandy
                            soil from three to five feet before exploding. It
                            was fun for the boys when one of the shells would go
                            into the ground, the boys would gather around the
                            hole and wait for the explosion of the shell, which
                            would throw dirt all over them. The lower fleet was
                            about three and a half or four miles below the city,
                            and the upper one about three miles above directly
                            opposite the city across the peninsula.The hills around the city and below had many
                            beautiful residences on them. There was one large
                            home on one of these hills not far frmo the lower
                            fleet, from the top of which the fleet could be seen
                            plainly.Gunboat hunt1862 July 6thThe boys would gather upon the top of this house to
                            watch the maneuvering of the fleets. One day the
                            boys of the old 19th were on top for a look out, and
                            had attracted the attention of the enemy, and they
                            made the house a target. The boys got down and off
                            the top none too soon for the second shot demolished
                            the house.Their boats were very restless, moving about staying
                            in one position but a short time each fleet had a
                            small boat we called the "Fice" and they were
                            continually on the run, to first one boat and then
                            an other. While we were here, the Federals began
                            cutting a canal across the peninsula. They worked
                            principally at night, for during the day our guns
                            made it too warm for them to stay in the canal.Gun boat hunt.For several days, the enemy had two mortar boats tied
                            up to the bank on our side of the river. The old
                            19th and a part of the 15th Mississippi regiments
                            under Col Walker, were sent down to investigate the
                            right they had taken in so doing, and to take them
                            in if necessary.The day was an exceedingly hot one, and but little
                            air was stirring. The road was graded cutting
                            through the small hills like a railroad and when we
                            would get into one of these cuts, the heat was so
                            oppressive that it was almost intollerable.1862 July 7thThe distance we had to go was about four miles Many
                            of the men were over come by the heat and fell by
                            the way side completely exhausted. There were more
                            Mississippians fell out on account of the heat than
                            Tennesseeans. The writer gathered leaves and put
                            them in his hat, changing them every few minits, he
                            came very near giving it up at one time. The sun
                            light seemed to go out, everything became dark, he
                            staggered and would have fallen, but sitting down
                            for a little while this wore off and he moved on
                            alright. Finally we reached the river bottoms,
                            across which we must go, through marshy places, mud
                            and lagoons.There were bamboo briars in abondance,
                            whose long thorny arms reaching out for every thing
                            that passed by them, were ahead of us and awaiting
                            us. We fail to express it when we say that it was
                            with great difficulty we picked our way across the
                            bottoms and reached the levee beyond, upon whose
                            crest for some distance above us and below us, was a
                            thick heavy cane, which completely hid us from view
                            of the enemy. On reaching the cane brake, we found
                            the object of our search lay about one hundred yards
                            below us. Moving cautiously down the levee behind
                            the cane, until we thought we were far enough, and
                            even with the boats we made a rush forward to the
                            river.1862 July 8thThe lower end, or left wing of our column fell in
                            about twenty yards above the nearest boat. Out in
                            the river before us lay the entire fleet like a
                            small village on the water. The two boats were
                            moored close to the bank sleeping, some playing
                            cards, and others on the deck. Little did they dream
                            of danger.One or two vollies from our guns sent several of them
                            to their long homes. Just how many were killed we
                            could not tell. It was only a moments work and we
                            had to take shelter behind the elevation of the
                            Levee just in time to save our selves, where we had
                            to remain for a while. Oh! My! It seemed as is the
                            very gravels and rock from the river's bed arose in
                            their defense and came crashing through the cane
                            after us. From the sides of every boat came shot and
                            shell, grape and canister until the boats seemed
                            ablaze of fire, and a sound of one continuous roar
                            of cannon.As soon as the firing subsided sufficiently for us to
                            venture from our hiding, we moved out, while the
                            enemy kept up the firing which hurried us on. We did
                            not go out in as good order as we went in nor were we as particular in picking our
                            way. The grape kept coming too plentifully for
                            comfort, and the writer made for a large Cypress
                            tree that stood infront of him. Just
                            before wehe reached the tree when within two or three
                            steps of it, a four pound shot went through the tree
                            a little above myhis head.The Old Englishman1862 July 9thThinking it but little safer behind the tree than any
                            where else, wehe moved on. Several of the men lost their
                            shoes in the mud. Captain Deadrick mired up in the
                            quick sand so he could not move, and two men had to
                            help him, and they too came near sticking. It was
                            said one man lost his breaches, torn off by the
                            bamboos and thorns. We lost two men supposed killed,
                            and two wounded. It was certainly a "Wild Goose"
                            chase, and was not as successful as was our trip to
                            Goose Greek in KYKentucky. But then Gun boats are not as
                                easly handled as Salt.We returned to camp and had many a hearty laugh over
                            our "Gun Boat hunt." On one of these Walnut hills,
                            an Englishman had a fine residence in a beautiful,
                            large, grassy yard full of shrubbery and flowers. In
                            this yard our regiment passed one or two evenings
                            and nights each week, resting on the grass under the
                            shade of the trees. Here we were in plain view of
                            the upper fleet. Our continued presence attracted
                            the attention of the enemy, and when we would be
                            there, the enemy would shell us, the shells passing
                            through the yard and burst near by. This raised the
                            ire of the old Englishman, and he soured on us.Vicksburg1862 July 9thHe would quickly have driven us out and off his
                            premises had he not been afraid.After a few shells had gone through his yards and had
                            demolished some of his shrubbery, thinking to
                            fortify against the enemy's shells- he raised the
                            English Flag on top of his house and also on his
                            barns, so we rested under the shadow of the English
                            flag as well as the Confederate flag; while in sight
                            in the distance the stars and stripes floated in the
                            breeze. The Old Englishman soon learned that his
                            flag did not put eyes to the shells of the Federal
                            guns. For one day he was in his barn currying his
                            cow, which was almost a daily business with him,
                            when a shell came crashing through the barn,
                                bearly missing him and his cow, and
                            went on its frightful mission to scare some one
                            else. As usual we had to keep up drill and
                            inspection. We had in our regiment a Dutchman and
                            judging from his physical make up, he was of lauger
                            beer fame, from the size of his bay window. One
                            morning Lieut Col Moor was inspecting the regiment,
                            and was getting the men in line. This dutchman's
                            name was "Godhelp." Some how it seemed hard for him
                            to get on a propper
                            line, his belly would stick out too far. The Col
                            called out "You Dutchman, Goodhelp, put in your
                            belly."1862 July 10thOn 1862 July 10th Gen
                            Breckenridge issued the following order.General Order No 2 } Hdqrs Breckenridge's
                                Division Vicksburg
                                Miss July 10th 1862Here after the several brigades composing this
                                division will be numbered as follows. 1st Brigade, Brig Gen Bowen,2d " " " Helm,3d Brigade, Brig Gen Preston,4th " Col W.S. Statham. By command of Maj Gen Breckenridge Jno
                                T. Picket asst Adj Gen.Our brigade was composed of the same regiments as
                            when at the battle of Shiloh and ours was the fourth
                            (4th) of the present division.On the 16th there was read in the brigade the
                            following order concerning a boat under that was then
                            anchored in the Yazoo river above Vicksburg.Camp of the Hudson battery near Vicksburg Miss July 16th
                                1862Camp W.C. McCawley= asst adj General of 2d brig
                                Breckenridge's division.Dear sir, I received a circular of date July 15th
                                calling for vollenteers to go on board the
                                "Arkansas Ram" to attack the fleet just below
                                us.Respectfully H.B. Helm Brig Gen Comd of 2d
                                Brigade.This was news to us. We did not so much as know we
                            had a "Gun Boate" so near us.1862 July 20The question naturally arose in our minds what can
                            one boat do with this fleet which had one & half
                            a dozen. This all was made in all the regiments of
                            our brigade.The old 19th responded, which she always does, to any
                            duty in any emergency. A detail was sent from our
                            regiment to Captain Brown who was in command at the
                            boat. A few days after the detail had been sent from
                            the brigade there was read in the regiment the
                            following notice, which seemed to show there was or
                            had been some trouble with men in
                                reguard to the Ram.Headquarters 4th BrigadeVicksburg Miss July 20th
                            1862Maj Picket Asst Adj GeneralDear Sir, I have the honor to report after making
                            examination, that the Lieut and men who vollenteered
                            from my brigade and went on board of the Arkansas
                            are there yet, and have not been as hoarse with the
                            purpose of leaving the boat.The Lieutenant is distressed that such a report
                            should be made concerning him and his men. Direction
                            will be given that they remain until other wise
                            ordered from your head quarters or by Capt
                            Brown.I make this report at the request of Col W.S. Statham
                            commding brigade, who now is in bed with a very hot
                            fever. The six vollenteer firemen called for
                            yesterday were sent to the Arkansas late yesterday
                            evening.I am respectfullyHarry P. ThorntonAct Asst
                            Adj. Gen.1862 July 20thCol W.S. Statham our brigade commander had been
                            complaining for several days, although he had been
                            out nearly every day.This communication just given, was the last one he
                            ever wrote or dictated. He grew worse rapidly, and
                            August the 1st he surrendered to grim monster
                            death.All the men loved Col Statham, and hated to give up
                            their brigade commander, and while they deeply
                            mourned his departure, they consoled them selves
                            that his was but a transfer of his enrollment from
                            the Army on earth to the one in the beautiful
                            beyond.While here, we were kept busy day and night on the
                            lookout, for first on thing and then another. The enemy's shells annoyed us, but
                            there was an other foe we had to contend with more
                            annoying than the enemy's shells. The mosquito or as
                            the boys called them "Gullinippers." Roll up in your
                            blanket ever so well, they would bite you. They
                            either got on the blanket with you and rolled up
                            with you, or they bit you through all the folds. The
                            boys said "Gul or no Gul they had the nippers" and
                            right well did they ply them. There was the barking
                            lizzard, and other curious things. When we first
                            moved out to the hills over looking the river, there
                            was a cluster of bushes neare by, In these bushes
                            were these lizzards and they would every now and
                            then and begin to yelp, just little puppies.After night the enemy's shells were more entertaining
                            than any other time. The fire of the shells could be
                            seen from the time they left the mortar until they
                            burst. Often six or eight would go up at one time
                            following each other. If the night was cloudy, the
                            shells woudl go up through the clouds and be lost to
                            sight for a time. When the bursting time came, they
                            loast all their beauty for the flying pieces of
                            shells made it uncomfortable and dangerous.The Arkansas Ram1862 July 21stThe Arkansas Ram.The "Arkansas Ram," a gun boat, of which notice has
                            already been made, was then in the Yazoo river about
                            twenty miles above Vicksburg. Her sides, top and bottom
                            were of R.R. iron. She floated deep in the water,
                            was well equipped with large guns.She made her appearance in the Mississippi July the
                            16th To get into Vicksburg
                            she had to pass the upper fleet. Soon as the black
                            smoke began to ascend from the low smoke stack of
                            the Ram, and was seen nearing the Mississippi river,
                            a small swift steamer, belonging to the enemy, that
                            had been for some time lying in wait, watching the
                            movements of the Ram, turned her course homeward as
                            fast as the current of the river and her engine
                            could propel her to give warning that the "Ram" was
                            coming. Out of the mouth of the Yazoo, into the
                            "Father of the Waters" she came and midway of the
                            stream, she floated quietly, yet defiantly for the
                            wharf at Vicksburg.1862 July 28About Six (6. am) oclock she came in sight of the
                            Fleet that was awaiting her coming, and which was
                            careful to give her ample room.The enemy was enthusiastic in their demonstrations,
                            and gave the Ram loud and continued salutes. The Ram
                            was as courteous and returned the fire with vim.She moved slowly, nor turned out of her way, and when
                            her broad side presented to their boats, she gave
                            them shot after shot, the enemy did not relish. on
                            she came triumphantly into port, having suffered
                            considerably from the enemy's shot & shell-
                            & with her crew almost annihilated. Having lost
                            twenty five killed & thirty wounded. Hair,
                            brains & blood were strewn everywhere.While here our bass drummer Jones Tyner of Comp "I"
                            just 15 years old when enlisted, was honorably
                            discharged, by J.E. Wooding 1st Lieut Commanding
                            Company D. Sullin Brig Quartermaster finish
                            transportation.Chapter VIII.Our stay in Vicksburg was for
                        us romantic and full of thrilling events, though some of
                        them were of too shaky a nature to be pleasant. Toward
                        the close of our stay here nearly all the men contracted
                        chills, which constituted the shaking part of our
                        experience. The weather was very hot and sultry. Dr. Montgomery of
                        Mississippi assisted our surgeon Dr. Dulaney, and had
                        charge of the Chill department.Our boys began to be home sick and longed to leave the
                        land of flowers, magnolias and chills, but no furloughs,
                        no transfers were granted. But this did not set back a
                        few of the boys who wanted to get away. Lode Walker,
                        Rufus Staples and his brother Henry, wrote out their own
                        transfers, left us and joined other commands. Their
                        papers were so ingeniously gotten up the signatures of
                        the Officials so exact, that no one ever detected they
                        were bogus. These were from Co "H" of 19th Tenn. Also Ab Henderson of Co 'E'
                                discharged. As has been stated, the death of Col. W.S.
                        Statham who commanded our brigade occured August the 1st
                        and after his death Brig Gen Clark took command of our
                        brigadeThe next day after Gen Clark took command orders were
                        received for all able for duty to be ready to move at a
                        moments notice for BattonBaton Rouge.Batton Rouge1862 August 5thA good number of our men were chilling, which left
                            but few able to respond to this call.Gen Breckenridge left for BattonBaton Rouge with two divisions of
                            brigades each. The first division was commanded by
                            Brig Gen Clark, and was composed of the 2d and 4th
                            brigades, and commanded respectfully by Cols Hurt
                            and Smith.The 2d Division was commanded by Brig Gen Ruggles,
                            and was composed of the 1st and 3d brigades,
                            commanded respectfully by Cols Allen Thompson. We
                            had with our brigade two guns of Henderson's battery
                            and one gun of Cobb's battery. As Soon as Gen Breckenridge left for BattonBaton Rouge, the enemy's lower fleet
                            also left for BattonBaton Rouge and was closely followed
                            by the Arkansas Ram.We reached BattonBaton Rouge late in the evening of
                            the 4th and formed our lines after dark with Gen
                            Clark on our right, and Gen Ruggles on our leftEarly in the morning of the 5th Gen Clark advanced on
                            the Greenwell Spring road. As soon as it was light
                            enough to see. Gen Ruggles opened the fight by an
                            attack on the enemy's pickets and soon his whole
                            line was engaged. He soon drove the enemy from all
                            his positions.He started in with a cheer and a shout, and the
                            little Army moved forward with the impetuous courage
                            of a mighty force, capturing two pieces of
                            Artillery. Just at this time Col Allen fell loosing
                            both legs from a cannon shot; and following this
                            very soon Col Thompson fell wounded.1862 August 5thOn our right Gen Clark pressed the enemy back at
                            every point, but was resisted with great
                            stubbornness. After several hours hard fighting he
                            drove the enemy back to his encampment in a large
                            grave just in the rear of the State Penetentiary.
                            Here the battle was most obstinate and fierce, and
                            where the first division suffered the greatest loss.
                            Here Col Hunt commanding the 2d brigade was shot
                            down, and Gen Clark commanding division was badly
                            wounded.The 3d Brigade on our left having exhausted its
                            ammunition was ordered to fix bayonets, and support
                            the 4th brigade in a charge with bayonets.Our whole line had suffered from the gun boats until
                            we had driven the enemy in so close, the boats could
                            do us no harm. It was now 10 oclock AM. and the
                            Arkansas Ram which should have been on hand and
                            putting in her best work, had not yet opened her
                            mouth. At half past ten, when our men had driven the
                            enemy from their last encampment in the grove, and
                            where the fight was such a bloody one, they broke
                            and ran down the streets followed by our men firing
                            on them at every step until they took shelter in
                            Arsenal and Barracks. It was now noon and our men exhausted from heat and thirst,
                            with drew under a galling fire from the gun boats.
                            We expected to find water in the cisterns, but kept
                            on to a greater distance out. Finding no water here
                            we returned to the front and into the City, where we
                            obtained a scanty supply from the cisterns. All this
                            time the boats were shelling us, but here on this
                            line we remained until nearly night. Having no picks
                            and shovels, and not being able to procure any in
                            the city, we gave up the field with its dead to be
                                burried by the Federals. The Ram
                            never showed up.1862 August 5thThe captain reported that machinery gave out and
                            could not be worked, and he had to abandon her, and
                            then blew her up.The battle of BattonBaton Rouge was a bloody little
                            fight. We moved all our wounded to comfortable
                            quarters sending to JacksonMiss, all who could bear moving,
                            leaving the dead on the field.Breckenridge had but a small force. He lost one
                            division and two brigade Commanders and a good many
                            killed and wounded.Thomas White Co wounded shot
                                    through hips. Lieut JM Sims wounded in leg=
                                    same leg that was wounded at Shiloh. Here Elbert Roberts of Knox Co Tenn was
                            killed. He was in Ruggle's command. The old 19th
                            Tenn while she could not boast of her numbers
                            engaged could boast of grit and nerve, for many of
                            our regiment were bearly able to walk.
                            Lieut Etter fought through this battle with a child
                            on him shaking so he could hardly go, which was
                            followed with a burning fever and intense
                            thirst.Yet through the heat of the day and torture of body
                            he never left the ranks. There were many of our old
                            regiment who had the nerve, and would have gone into
                            the fight, but did not have the physical strength.
                            While Breckenridge was at BattonBaton Rouge all the troops, save a
                            garrison to hold the forts, left Vicksburg and came to Jackson, where they were joined by
                            Breckenridge on his return from BattonBaton Rouge.Col. D.H. Cummings, our old Colonel visited us here.
                            The old 19th was right glad to shake his hand once more. Gen Breckenridge ordered
                            inscribed on theFlag of the Old 19th.Flag of the Old 19th1862 Aug 25thafter the battle of BattonBaton Rouge, the names of the
                            engagements in which she so bravely participated,
                            the battles were as follows, "Fishing Creek,"
                            "Shiloh," "Vicksburg" and
                                "BattonBaton Rouge."Verily of the old 19th Tenn, none were ashamed, but
                            all were proud of the record.We were, and had been for several days encamping
                            around Jackson
                            Mississippi. And since we started out, had gone
                            through some rough scenes. Many of our experiences
                            had been pleasant. We would have enjoyed our stay in
                                Vicksburg much more
                            had it not been for the chills.As it was, our soldiering there was romantic and
                            exciting. We have not lacked for rain. It seemed
                            that rain was one of the necessary concomitants of
                            camp life. While here Gen Breckenridge made some
                            changes in our brigade, which the following order
                            shows.Jackson Miss1862 Sept 7thJackson Miss, Palmer
                            HouseSept 7th 1862Gen Order No 23 }The 4th 5th and 6th KYKentucky regiments, and Cobb's battery will for the
                                presint constitute a brigade under
                            the command of Col. R.P. Trabue and be called the 1st brigade.The 19th 20th and 45th Tenn regiments, and McClung's
                            battery will form an other brigade under the command
                            of Col. F.M. Walker and be called the 2d
                            brigade.By Command Maj Gen Breckenridge John A Buckner Maj
                            & asst Adj Gen.In this reorganization of the brigade, the 15th Miss,
                            which had been with us so long, ever since our first
                            encampment in Kentucky, sharing our joys and
                            hardships on all our long marches, standing by our
                            side in all our battles, and journeying with us over
                            mountains and through villages, now left us and we
                            had to say to our old true and tried friend "Good
                            by."And also the 22d Miss, that fell in with us at the
                            reorganization under A.S. JohnsonJohnston at Murfreesboro Tenn. We had been encamped
                            in the city limits, but on the 8th we moved out some
                            six miles from Jackson.1862 Sept 8thHere we adjusted our payrolls, to keep in remembrance
                            that there was such a thing called money- we drew
                            eleven months pay. On page 90 =
                                Sixty six dollars for each private. The money
                                was in uncut sheets. The pay master's tent was a
                                mile from camp. Jake Willifred who had a
                                "Chuckaluck bank" wone all the money the men
                                received before they reached camp.
                            Clothing and provisions were issued us and we were
                            happy, what use had we for money?While here were laid in the
                                quiet resting place of the dead= J.B. Irwin,
                                & S.M. Jenkins of Co F - & S.W. Riley of
                                Co I. Who died in hospital. All the sick
                            unable for duty were ordered to the hospital in the
                            city, preparitory for an other move somewhere. By
                            some meanes a happy infatuation got hold of us just
                            now and rumerrumor that we were on the eve of going home. But
                            we know "Rumer is a pipeBlown by surmise and conjectureOf so easey and so plain a noteThe still discordant multitudeCan play upon it." While we were enjoying the happy thought of a
                            "Homweard Bound," came the following order.Headqrts Breckenridge's Division Jackson Miss, Sept 9th 1862Special Order No 17 } The 2d brigade of this division
                            will be at the railroad station in the Jackson, and under command
                            of Col F.M. Walker, will move at 8 oclock tomorrow
                            morning, and take the cars for the north. The
                            commanding officer will report to Brig Gen
                            Villipigre at Holly Springs (or beyond if he has
                            moved) until the arrival of the Maj. Gen Commanding
                            division.By order of Maj. Gen. Breckinridge } J.L. Robertson
                            Capt and Asst Adj GenHolly Springs1862 Sept 11thWe left our camp the morning of the 10th some what
                            disappointed and took the cars for Holly Springs
                            instead of for home. We started out in one of the
                            hardest rains that had fallen on us in Mississippi.
                            We boarded an old Cattle train all the cars were
                            open but covered, slatted and filthy beyond
                                discription. The manure in some of
                            the cars was an inch deep, sloppy and slimy.We were on this train one whole day and one night. We
                            had but little protection from the rain which poured
                            down on us all the way. How we longed for the
                            enjoyment and pleasure of walking. The only place
                            the boys could lie down was out on top of the cars
                            where they had the full benefit of the rain. We
                            finally reached Holly Spring. Whe we
                            got off the cars, wet, muddy, and nasty.We were not to be envied either in feelings or looks.
                            We were all sleepy and tired out, and if we had been
                            attacked by the enemy however small the force, we
                            could neither have fought nor run. We moved up the
                            railroad towards Grand Junction a mile or so, where
                            we encamped on a small stream, which reminded us
                            very much of Camp Zollicoffer, where just one year
                            ago we were. How little then, did we think what was
                            before us, what long tiresome marches without
                            anything to eat, and the sleepless night watches
                            that were in store for us. The work of the
                            inexorable "Fates" like the corral builders, was
                            unseen, yet they wove for us a journey rough and
                            sure.Meridian1862 Sept 22dIt is well we can not lift the veil and see coming
                            events. "If this were so,How many vewing their progress throughWhat perils to come, what crosses to
                                    endureWould shut the book and sit him down to
                                    die."After completing the work we were sent here to die
                            (and we must confess we saw nothing to do,) we again
                            took the cars for Jackson.But we did not stop, but went right on to Meredian
                            which place we reached September 22d, where we
                            rested for a few days. Here Gen Breckenridge made us
                            a cheering patriotic speach. A
                            farewell, for he was going to turn us over to other
                            commands. So the next morning we received the
                            following order.Special Order No 27. } Headqrts Breckenridge's
                            Division Meredian Miss, Sept 24th 1862Col FM Walker will move with his, the 2d brigade by
                            rail to Mobile AlaAlabama, thense to Montgomery and to Chattanooga Tenn, taking his
                            tents ammunition and fifteen days rations.By order of Maj Gen Breckenridge } John A. Bucker
                            Major & asst. Adj Gen.This was the last order Gen Breckenridge ever gave to
                            our brigade. We bade him adieu.Andrew Flenor1862 Sept 25thOur boys were now happy. Some danced, some sang
                            "Homeward Bound," and all felt jolly.We again boarded the cars, but before the train moved
                            out, in our car, our jollification was cut short. We
                            were all eating, singing and dancing in turn, when
                            one of our number fell over dead. We supposed he was
                            choked and picked him up quickly, worked with him
                            for awhile but to no purpose. He was dead!Poor Andrew Flenor had received his furlough home to
                            return no more. He was gently lifted from the car
                            and with sorrowing hearts, we left him in Meridian
                            Miss. It seemed more sad than had he been killed. At
                            the very acme of his joys of soon seeing his home
                            and being with loved ones again he obeyed a higher
                            mandate.This was the first death of the kind in our regiment
                            and it seemed to weigh upon the hearts of the boys
                            more than had he fallen in battle.Yet, we moved out from Meredian, as happy as could
                            be, for Mobile.We did not make any halt in Mobile longer than to get
                            aboard a steamer all our effects.A Soldier Over board1862 Sept 30thOn our way across the bay, a soldier fell over board
                            and was lost. He disappeared before succor could
                            reach him. Brave comrade we can not follow thee with
                            solemn head and with
                            funeral march to the grave, but we can sing "Sleep, we give thee to the waveRed with life's blood from the braveFare thee well."So, one by one, our ranks are thinning. In battle
                            array, or the quiet camp, "Death" is claiming all,
                            his own and soon the Soldier's big roll call will be on the
                            other shore, where the beautiful bivouac will never
                            break up.We landed from the Steamer at the wharf in the City
                            of Tensas where we took the cars for Montgomery,
                            through which we passed with out halting and on to
                            West Point where we remained for a few days. Leaving
                                Westpoint we
                            passed through Atlanta and
                                Dalton Ga. and on to
                                Knoxville Tenn where
                            we arrived Sept 30th after a long and tedious
                            journey with exposure, and anxious waiting at almost
                            every station on the way. It seemed when we were in
                            the bigest hurry the slower was our
                            progress, and we seemed to halt by the way for the
                            least excuse. It seemed the great anxiety for our
                            reaching home was the burden that retarded our
                            speed. But after all we arrived at Knoxville, and our regiment
                            was given a six days furlough. At DaltonGaGeorgia we left the other regiments of our
                            brigade, the 20th 28th and 45th Tennessee, they went on to Chattanooga.Faithful watch dog.1862 Sept 30thAt Knoxville our men
                            separated, and each one went for his respective
                            home, to be greeted by loved ones, and welcomed by
                            friends.And we can say too with none the less joy, by the old
                            faithful watch dog. "Twas sweet to hear the oldWatch dog's honest bark,Bay a deep mouthed welcomeAs we drew near home."(Tis sweet to hear the watch dogs honest
                                    barkBay deep mouthed welcome as we drew near
                                    home"Tis sweet to know there is an eye wile mark our comingAnd grow brighter where we come C.W.H)Chapter IX.At home a gain.What a joy to be at home. More than a year had gone
                            by; months of danger, months of anxious waiting by
                            loved ones at home for our
                                coming.Reader, did time ever fly more rapidly with you at
                            one time more than an other? If so, then you can
                            appreciate, when we say we had scarcely finished
                            shaking hands of welcome until the good by, "God
                            bless you" were rining in our ears. How
                            quickly did these Six days go by. They were gone.
                            And as the Camp may be called the home of the
                            soldier, it can be said again the boys are gathering
                            home to their bivouac, at Knoxville to await orders.No doubt many reluctantly gave up the comforts around
                            the old hearth stone, for the cold camp fires and
                                ridged discipline of army life, "But duty calls, and we must go."Officers as well as men came in slowly, and not near
                            all had come in when we received orders to go to
                            Loudon. We left Knoxville
                            the 15th October, and went to Loudon, where we
                            remained for a few days, and where all the
                            furloughed men came up. F.M. Walker our much loved
                            Colonel, had been assigned duty some where else and
                            Lieut Col B.F. Moore was in command of the
                            regiment.Loudon1862 Nov 15thLieut Col Moore was a strict disciplinarian. He never
                            issued an order but what he intended it to be carried out. One night he went out and
                            around in the rear of the sentinel post below the
                            bridge, over looking the river. The Col threw a rock
                            or two near where the Sentinel was, to attract his
                            attention, then went up to the sentinel.The Sentinel saw who it was before he came up, and
                            permited the col to come on without challenging him.
                            The Col called the Corporal of the guard and had the
                            sentinel relieved and put under arrest. The next
                            morning the Col release the prisner
                            with a reprimand and told him to do so no more.We left Loudon October the 30th and passing on
                            through Chattanooga, did
                            not stop until we reached Bridge
                                PortAlaAlabama, where we remained one week. Leaving here
                            on the 15th we went to Wartrace where we remained
                            but one week. As this was not to be our resting
                            place, we shouldered our knapsacks and guns and
                            proceeded to count the cross ties between this and
                                Shelbyville, where we
                            remained but a few days.Being now in the habit of moving, like the "Gipsies"
                            we packed and unpacked almost daily. From here we
                            moved to Eaglesville,
                            around which place we lay for several days,
                            drilling, and having inspection of arms, & hunting hickory nuts, of which there were
                            plenty.While here Col Walker came to us, having been gone
                            ever since our return from Vicksburg. We were all glad to see him, and the boys
                            gathered around him to shake his hand and gave him
                            three hearty cheers as a warm welcome.Murfreesborough1862 Dec 26Leaving here we moved nearer Murfreesboro, which now
                            seemed to be the center of attraction for Braggs
                            Army. Here our regiment was placed in a new brigade
                            and a new division. We were put in Brig Gen Stuart's
                            brigade, Gen Cheatham's division. This was our first
                            introduction to Gen Cheatham, and we were in Gen
                            Polks Corps. CorpsLieut Gen L PolkDivisionMaj. Gen. B.F. Cheatham.BrigadesDonalson's,Maney'sStuart'sSmith'sStuart's brigade4th & 5th Tenn Col O.F.
                                        Strahl19th " " F.M. Walker24th " " J.A. Wilson31st Tenn Col E.E. Tansil33d " " W.J. JonesStafford's Battery.The Federal Gen RosencransGeneral William Starke
                                    Rosencrans who was now at Nashville seemed to be
                            making Murfreesboro the focus of his vision. Like
                            two angry clouds approaching each other to meet in a
                            terrific storm, so
                            these two mighty forces Bragg's and Rosencran's where theywere about to meet will bring
                                ain clash of arms.The Battlefield1862 Dec 27thGen RosencransGeneral William Starke
                                    Rosencrans left Nashville Dec 27th with 65,000 or
                            70,000 men and approached Murfreesborough in three columns
                            on three different roads, as rapidly as the roads
                            and circumstances would allow, in order to reach
                            Stone river, and form his lines before Bragg with
                            his 40,000 men could get ready for an attack.But being met at every turn of the road by the
                            Confederate Cavalry, he did not reach the battle
                            field until the evening of the 30th when he found
                            Bragg seated around the cedars and rocks some (21/2)
                            two and a half miles west of Murfreesboro and west
                            of Stone river.The Battle field.The battle field lies between Stone river on the East
                            and Overall Creek on the West, and the Frankline or
                            Triune Pike on the South while the river and creek
                            formed the Northern boundary.The river in front of Murfreesboroough ran due north
                            for a short distance, then turned north west. The
                            ground with in this boundary is very broken with
                            large bowldersboulders and ledges of rock, projecting three or
                            four feet in some places, while thick clusters of
                            shaggy cedars covered the whole ground, except where
                            the absence of rocks admited a
                            clearing.Running across this battle field were several roads
                            leading into the town Pikes and dirt roads.Formation of lines1862 Dec 30thRosencrans formed his lines with with his right wing
                            under McCook, resting on the Triune road near
                            Overall Creek and running Northeast to the Wilkinson
                            pike, there joining Thomas who formed and held the
                            center of the Federal line and extended on the
                            Nasvhille pike. Crittenden occupying their left
                            extended to a down the river.Braggs line.Bragg formed his line with McCown's and CleburnCleburne's divisions of Hardee's Corps on our left,
                            with Polk's Corps forming the center and extending
                            to the river, while Breckenridge crossed the river
                            and formed on the North bank. Cheatham formed his
                            lines just in the rear of CleburnCleburne's and Wither's divisions. Hardee
                            confronted McCook, Polk in front of Thomas, while
                            Breckenridge had the river between him and
                            Crittenden. Our line ran principally through the
                            cedars and rocks and this cold winter evening, when
                            all nature presented a dreary out look, these thick
                            cedars and bowlders seemed to cast a double mantle
                            of dreariness over every thing.Yet on this Tuesday evening of December the 30th when
                            the two lines of battle lay in waiting for each
                            other, there occurd an incident in
                            which both Armies took a part, and which is not
                            often recorded in the history of battles.With us, both Armies spoke the same language, learned
                            the same tunes, and played the same airs. The
                            Officers of each Army were graduated from the same
                            school, and many of them were school mates together. It was like
                            diamond cut diamond.The night before the battle, and after the bands had
                            finished thir usual evening serenade and after the
                            sounds of the last piece were dying away in the
                            distance, a Federal band struck up slow &
                            softly "Home Sweet home.""Home Sweet home."1862 DecOut in the darkness of this
                                cold December night, amidst the dense cedars
                                & rough bowlders all along the banks of
                                Stone River"Whos, sad, slow stream, its
                                        noisless floodPoured O'er the glancing pebblesAll silent now, the Federals stoodAll silent stood the RebelsNo heart or Soul had heard unmovedThat plaintive note's appealingSo sweetly "Home Sweet Home" but
                                        stirredThe hidden founts of feeling."Reader, I tell you this was a soul
                                stiring piece. The stillness of the
                            night, each soldier, of both Armies perhaps was
                            holding communion with his own soul, his mind
                            occupied with the thought of what tomorrow would
                            bring, wounds or death, & would he see home
                            again, when the notes of this inspiring song came
                            floating on the stillness of the night. Immediately
                            a Condederate band caught up the strain, then one
                            after another until all the bands of each army were
                            playing "Home sweet home." And after our bands had
                            ceased playing we could hear the sweet refrain as it
                            died away on the cool frosty air on the Federal
                            side. What a thrill of memories must have gone
                            through the soul of all that night. Who knows what a
                            stimulus this Home sweet home gave each one the next
                            day in battle. And as the minie balls sounded the
                                earley reveille next morning, they
                            thought it was for home and country.Murfreesborough1862 Dec 31stDuring the night of the 30th Gen Crittenden crossed a
                            part of Wood's division to the north bank of the
                            river, under the impression no doubt that Bragg had
                            withdrawn his men from that side. But after
                            crossing, he found too many Confederates to rest
                            comfortably, so he withdrew under cover of night and
                            bivouaced with the other part of his divisionEarley wednesday morning about 7.30
                            oclock, Hardee with McCown's division closely
                            followed by CleburnCleburne opened the attack. Bursting through the
                            thick cedars they fell upon Johnson and Davis of
                            McCook's Corps lik an
                                avalanch before they were aware of
                            his coming, while the invincible Cheatham moved
                            forward upon McCook's center, and drove him from his
                            stronghold and first position. The Federals had a
                            battery concealed behind a cluster of cedars on a
                            dirt road running between the piks which raked our
                            line, but failed to check our advance.Our regiment had advanced to a temporary breast work
                            of loose stones made by the enemy during the night
                            before, and halted for a few minuts,
                            when a shell from this concealed battery struck the
                            rock wall, bursting killed one and wounded six
                            others of "I" of the Old 19th Tenn.From this position, our whole line again moved
                            forward to the enemy's Second line, where the two
                            Armies came hand to hand in a musketry fire that was
                            destructive to friend and foe alike. The enemy
                            strengthened their line here by reinforcements, but
                            they could not withstand the impetuous rush of
                            Hardee and Cheatham.1862 Dec 31stTheir lines were broken and their artillery horses
                            killed so they could not remove their guns, and
                            three pieces of Artillery fell into the hands of our
                            regiment. These pieces were supposed to have been
                            the concealed battery from which came the fatal shot
                            to Company "I" at the rock wall. In this charge the
                            color bearer was shot down, and as the colors were
                            falling corporal Mason, of the color guard siezed
                            them and bore them aloft as a beacon for the
                            regiment through the storm of battle. Mason was of
                            Co "K."The Federal Gen Post made a desperate attempt to turn
                            our advance, and for a while held us in check, but
                            his men falling all around him, his gunners dead,
                            his horses killed, his guns were silenced and he was
                            forced back to a line of fences where was
                            established one of their field hospitals which was
                            soon in our possession. Gaining this point Hardee's
                            and part of Polk's lines faced due north, having
                            swung around on a pivot resting near midway of the
                            Wilkinson and Nashville pikes forming a right angle
                            with their first line. After driving Rosencran's
                            right around, Polk's whole command moved on Thomas.
                            Here Cheatham's division again bravely faced a
                            shower of shot and shrapnel that thinned his ranks
                            fearfully, but he drove Sherman, whom he was fighting, back.1862 Dec 31stAfter gaining possession of this line, Cheatham found
                            himself exposed to a hotter and more deadly fire
                            than before, and he fell back. Here in this charge
                            the old 19th lost some of her best men. Here fell
                            Maj. Jarnagan, Captain Frazier, Lieut Abernathy and
                            others & here Lieut Sims caught
                                    it again = ball hit tohe of head. Maj. R.J. Jarnagan was a noble officer, a
                            brave soldier, small in stature but every inch a
                            man. The regiment sustained a loss
                                    in Maj Jarnagin that will be hard to
                                    fill. He was liked by all; kind and generous.A part of Wither's division came to our assistance
                            and we held our position. Her Col. Loomis, of one of
                            the regiment of Wither's division who came to our
                            help was so badly hurt by the falling of a limb cut
                            from a tree by a shell that he had to be carried
                            from the field. Shot and shell were flying thick and
                            fast, the Artillery fire was very heavy. The Federal
                            Gen Sill, in a wild, and excited attempt to force
                            Cheatham back by an heroic charge, fell near our
                            regiment, he was killed. The battle waxed hotter,
                            and in the Center the struggle was most
                            stubborn.On our left McCown and CleburnCleburne again pressed McCook further around, and
                            threatened Thomas' rear by flanking, caused him to
                            fall back and in doing so an Indiana regiment in
                            crossing a small clearing was almost annihilated
                            from the number of men left in the clearing.Battlefield of Murfreesboro.Map of the Battlefield of
                                Murfreesboro.O. F. STRAHL.Portrait of O.F. Strahl.1862 Dec 31stNight coming on put an end to the first days battle.
                            In the fight to day the the old 19th Tenn suffered
                            more than any other regiment in the brigade, her
                            loss being a little more than double that of any
                            other. In one of the engagements the regiment halted
                            in the edge of a cedar bottom.Orderly sergeant Joe Thompson of Co "I" ran forward
                            far out into the clearing and captured a
                                prisner and as he was returning
                            with him, his prisner was killed by a
                            piece of shell while Thompson had hold of him.
                            Letting him fall, Thompson ran forward and captured
                            an other bringing him out safely.During the entire day's struggle, the banner of the
                            Old 19th could be seen fluttering in the breeze in
                            the fiercest of the battle and the thickest of the
                            strife. To day many of the noble old regiment gave
                            their lives as a sacrifice to the cause they loved,
                            and for which they fought so bravely.During the day Bragg drove the enemy from nearly
                            every position he had held, capturing about thirty
                            one pieces of Artillery and 4,000
                                prisners, including two Brig
                            Generals, and also 200 wagons and teams. For three
                            miles or nearly, now in our rear amidst the thick
                            cedars and bowlders to where the enemy's lines were
                            formed in the morning their dead, their dying, their
                            hospitals and the wreck of their Army, clearly
                            showed the victorious advance of our men, who
                            bivouaced the first night within a quarter of a mile
                            of the rail road, behind whose embankment the enemy
                            took shelter. As the old year was dying, passing
                            away to be numbered with the things of the past, he
                            saw in vision, a hard fought battle, a bloody
                            contest, which awakened Murfreesborough amidst her rocks
                            and cedars, as she had never been before.1862 Dec 31stThe roar of musketry and cannons filled the valley
                            and shook the very rocks on which the city
                            stood.The night that followed was lonely and dark, The
                            thick cedars and bowlders rendered the darkness more
                            gloomy and dreary. There were no flickering camp
                            fires to be seen although the night was damp and
                            chilly. There was but little moving of troops, and
                            what there was, was done in silence. The old iron
                            mouthed cannons seemed to be asleep. Silence reigned
                            supreme. We lay all night with a feeling of
                            loneliness as if all were dead but ourselves.
                            Knowing that all through the cedars and rocks were
                            lying thousands of friends and foes alike
                            unconscious in that sleep from which the morning
                            reveille will not awake them.Then, were many wounded too who had not been cared for, suffering not
                            only from wounds but from cold. Oh! the deep anxious
                            reverie of the soul in such an hour as this! None
                            but those who have gone through it can tell.The gray dawn of an other day, and of an other "New
                            Year" as well, was welcomed indeed, as it came
                            creeping slowly on us, like the vanguard of a mighty
                            army on its foe.1863 Jan 1stIt was a relief. It came not to arouse us from
                            slumber, for we suppose but few closed their eyes in
                            sleep that night. But it lifted the deep dread that
                            had settled like a pall over the soul.The morning found our lines pretty much the same they
                            were the evening before. Rosencrans had improved
                            his. Had dropped back from "Round forrest" a point
                            on his line between the railroad and the river, he
                            had occupied the evening before, to a hill further
                            back and also down the river.The next day the enemy maneuvered his troops
                            considerably. He crossed the river with one or two
                            divisions of Crittenden's Corps and a battery of 12
                            guns to the north side, and in front of
                            Breckenridge. Hardee still held the left. Hardee the
                            day before had some of Breckenridge's men and he
                            sent them round to him early in the morning.While Polk in the center, gazed at the iron crested
                            hill in front of him, where fifty mounted "War Dogs"
                            stood ready to be turned loose upon him at the first
                            move he made.As old "Sol" continued driving his fiery chariot up
                            the eastern horizon, the two armies still remained
                            silent, looking at each other like two Mastiffs
                            after a hard tussle, debating whether to open again
                            the battle or not. The afternoon passed with but
                            little more than skirmishing, between the
                                pickits, and the darkness of an
                            other night settled every thing into a quiet
                            sleep.1863 Jan 3dThe next morning, the third day all was activity and
                            life. There was moving of Troops and Artillery.About the middle of the evening, Breckenridge charged
                            Beatty in front of him, driving them from their
                            position and across the river. Here the fifty guns
                            massed on the hill, opened upon him a perfect
                            tornado of iron hail that litterally
                            cut down his men like grass. In this charge Gen
                            Hanson was killed, and Gen Adams wounded.The fight was short, but Breckenridge loosing so many
                            of his men from the battery across the river, had to
                            fall back. This ended the battle of Murfreesboro.
                            Hardee and Polk since the morning of the second day,
                            had gained no new position. During the 2d and 3d
                            days Bragg was busy in getting the spoils from the
                            field, and in careing for the dead and
                            wounded.Bragg abandoned Murfreesboro Saturday night sending
                            off the infantry, but the Cavalry remained and
                            occupied and
                                occupied the town until monday morning of
                            January 5th 1863.Our loss in the engagement was very heavy in killed
                            and wounded. We were not as successful in getting
                            the names of the killed and wounded of our regiment
                            as we wished. There were always difficulties in the
                            way, Having too much to do, and could not get the
                            reports. 38 Killed & 111 Wounded1863 Jan 3dKilledJarnagan Maj R A.Ellison A.J.Co"F"Skelton H.H.""Burkheart WmCo"A"McKissack JR""Childress D.M.""Williams P.A.""Curran O.S.""McGhee J.M""Hamilton S. Rhea""G"Tipton J.A.""Brown Corp. Clobe""B"Bowles D.R.""Foster Samuel""Barger JR""Aikin S.B.""Wayler Jackson""Gaby Cris""Kincaid Pat""H"Roller George""C"Smith Thos""Erps Adrin""C"Stansberry Y.A.""Gaby John""Archer Wm""Keller Geo W""Easterly John L.""Keller Geo W""The one at Rock wall""I"Frazier Capt J.G.""D"Rhea Wm""Marshall E.W.""K"Abernatha Lieut S.B.""E"Wax William""Earnest Ed""Miller Charles""Swan J.H.""Fudge Charles""Sloan J.H.""1863 Jan 3dWoundedSmith John Co"C"Six wounded at rock wallCo"I"Burnette Frank""Holly William""Huffmaster Capt J.H.""K"Miller Lieut W.B.""K"Colville RW""D"Jackson E.H.""Bratuber John""Carmack John""Carson Samual""XLoftis D.W.""Strange James""H"McClarin Jasper""Basket John""John Mitchal ""Grogan Wash ""Alexander Tom""Kincaid Creed""E"Rhea Wm R""G"Ford Martin""Roller David""Hutson Andy""B"Russell W.R.""Ford Alford""Lieut J.M. Sims - in head""F"Horn Simeon""18- K&W of Co F in 30
                                        minitsHilton James""Cressell Van""Hale Elija ""There were 111 in all woundedGen Beard Co 'G' died on the M. PikeChapter X.ShelbyvilleAfter Bragg had removed all of the wounded that could
                            be removed and also all spoils and army stores, he
                            moved out from Murfreesboro.Gen Polk went out on the Shelbyville pike and Hardee
                            out on the Manchester Pike and Breckenridge farther
                            on to our right flank, in the direction of Tullahoma. Here on this
                            chain of ridges Bragg formed his line of defense,
                            and where we remained all the winter. But little was
                            done other than drill and picket duty.After we were settled down in camp again changes in
                            the officers of the regiment were made. On January
                            5th 1st Lieut J.C. Hammer of Co "B" resigned, and 2d
                            Lieut R.J. Tipton was promoted to 1st Lieut; and 3d
                            Lieut T.M. Brabron was made 2d Lieut, and A.C. Smith
                            made 3d Lieut.In company "D" 1st Lieut S.J.W. Frazier was made
                            captain in place of J.G. Frazier killed a
                                Murfreesborough.In company "E" 2d Lieut H.A. Waller was made 1st
                            Lieut in place of 1st Lieut SB Abernathy killed and
                            Jake L Waller was made 2d Lieut.For a short time our encampment was below and across
                            Duck river from Shelbyville. From Shelbyville we
                            moved near to Eaglesville where we had encamped once
                            before the Murfreesborough battle, remaining here but a short
                            time we moved to the pike about nine miles out from
                            Shelbyville.1863 Feb 27thSoon after coming here, Brig Gen A.P. Stuart was
                            taken from the command of our brigade, and put in
                            command of Gen McCown's division.Col O.F. Strahl was given command of the brigade The
                            following order explains the change.Special Order No 52 } Headquarters, Army of Tenn
                                Tullahoma Tenn, Feb
                            27th 1863---4th- Maj Gen J.P. McCown provisional Army is
                            placed in arest and charges prefered against him and
                            he will proceed to Chattanooga and await orders.---5th Brig Gen AP Stuart, provisional Army is
                            assigned to the command of the division of which Maj
                            Gen McCown is relieved, and will constitute a part
                            of Lieut Gen Polk's Corps.By Command of Gen Bragg Kinloch Falkner Asst Adj
                            Gen.Captain W.C. Harvey of company "C" resigned, and 2d
                            Lieut A.W. Smith was made captain. Lieut Smith was promoted over M.J. Miles 1st Lieut, and 3d
                            Lieut Wm Miles was made 2d Lieut, and D.W. Gammon
                            made 3d Lieut.April 5th Captain C.W. Heiskell of Co "K" was
                            promoted to be Maj of the regiment, in the place of
                            Maj R.A. Jarnagan killed. 1st Lieut J.H. Huffmaster
                            was made Captain, W.W. Etter went up to 1st Lieut,
                            W.B. Miller made 2d Lieut, and C.C. Spears made 3d
                            Lieut.J.K.P. Gammon 2d Lieut of Co "G" was elected Maj of
                            the 63d Tenn, and May the 2d left us for his new
                            command, Lieut H.D. Hank was promoted to 2d Lieut
                            and J.H. Rhea was made 3d. Lieut.Shelbyville Pike.1863 May 5thDuring all these months, our regiment had not been
                            out of sight of the pike but once & then only for a few days. At this time a spirit of
                            revival seemed to spread over our entire division.
                            Protracted meeting were held in each brigade. Rev
                            J.B. McFerrin of Nashville preached for us several
                            times.June 10thWe had for some time scarcely thought of war, save
                            only when we were at the front on picket. Our time
                            had been occupied in drilling regimental and brigade
                                drill,
                            inspections and dress parades and our big
                            revivals.Death sentence of Pruitt.One Nathaniel Pruitt of Company "H" was
                            courtmarshalled for desertion and sentenced to be
                            shot. This was the first and the last death sentence
                            ever passed upon one of the old 19th. Pruitt was a
                            conscript and not a volunteer soldier. June the 10th
                            was the day set for the exicution, but
                            through the influence of Col Walker and Maj CW
                            Heiskill, Pruitt was reprieved.He was brought out from prison near the command in an
                            old field. He rode on his coffin. His coffin was
                            placed in front of the open grave and he knelt
                            behind it. The guards were drawn and made ready, when his reprieve came and he was released. He deserted the next
                            night & fortunately for him was never
                            caught.1863 June 15So far the months had dragged wearily on with but
                            little excitement. Some of our regiment died in camp
                            while here. One died of Spinal Meningitis. Martin
                            Conwell of Co "B" and O.M. Humphries of Co "B" J.J.
                            Payne of Co "G" and Felix Landerback Co "K" died
                            while we were here on the pike. J.J. Ford Co "G"
                            wounded, Lieut R.G. Rhea of Co "F" was killed on
                            picket, and Liet A. Wm Simth of Co "C" was
                            captured.About the 15th June, the Federal began to make the
                            front all along the line more lively. They began to
                            press our front, and we strengthened our pickets.
                            Videttes became more bold and skirmishing heavier.
                            The old iron mouthed cannon that has been quiet so
                            long was again heard.The evening of 15th our regiment was ordered to the
                            front. We moved out as far as Mr. Lytle's house on
                            the pike, in whose yard we found the enemy's
                            videtts. Our regiment deployed and moved forward and
                            drove the enemy back, and our videttes, or rather
                            our main skirmish line occupied the yard.The enemy reinforced their line and drove our pickets
                            back some two hundred yards and they again occupied
                            the yard.It was in these charges of pickets that Lieut Robert
                            Rhea of Co "F" was killed. We reoccupied the enemy's
                            advanced line again late in the evening. That night
                            the enemy left our front and we saw no more of
                            them.Leaving Shelbyville.1863 June 27thThe next evening we returned to camp. The war cloud
                            seemed more and more threatening.Cheatham's division was ordered to the front to
                            repair at once to Guy's Gap a point on the pike
                            further up than we had been, but from some cause this order was not carried out. Gen Hardee was toon our right, and evidently moving toward Tullahoma. Stuart was to our
                            right and was now being pressed by the enemy.During the night of June the 26th we received the
                            following order.Headquarters Polk's CorpsShelbyville Tenn
                                June 26th 1863Maj Gen Cheatham commanding division
                                =General, The Lieut General commanding
                                directs that you move your division from its
                                present position to Tullahoma by the Schoefner and
                                Brownsville road, turning to the right
                                Brownsville.Let the movement be commenced at the earliest
                                hour possible tomorrow morning.Respectfully GeneralYour Obediant
                                ServantThos M. JackAsst Adj. Gen.So very early the next morning June 27th we pulled up
                            and left our encampment on the pike, was in
                            Shelbyville by 8 Oclock.Hurrying every thing that could be gotten away, and
                            distributing several hundred rations to the most
                            destitute citizens, and burning what could not be
                            gotten away, which could be of no benefit to any one
                            save the enemy, we moved towards Tullahoma.Tullahoma1863 June 28thOur march was slow and difficult owing to the
                            condition of the roads from heavy rains. We came
                            into Shelbyville in the hardest kind of a rain.
                            Commissary and ordinance trains were continually
                            miring up, and with great difficulty were gotten
                            along. We could not leave them. The enemy was
                            pushing for Tullahoma.Cheatham's and CleburnCleburne's divisions moving on different roads,
                            approached a bridge across a stream at the same
                            time. Some confusion was the result, but CleburnCleburne halted his men and Cheatham moved on. We
                            reached Tullahoma late in
                            the evening of the 28th tired and almost worn
                            out.Everything seemed to have the move on it but the
                            wagon train.On our march here, we would halt, march, skirmish and
                            halt in the rain and mud.The rains were almost incessant, and at times very
                            hard. The enemy had kept moving and so that we, to
                            keep pace with him. They were approaching Tullahoma in force, and from
                            indications Bragg intended to give battle.Early Tuesday morning June the 30th troops were seen
                            by the thousands hurrying in all directions through
                            and around the town, getting into positions in the
                            ditches.Portrait of General Braxton
                                Bragg.GENERAL BRAXTON BRAGG. Died in Galveston Tex
                                Sept 27-1876Portraits of W.H.T. Walker, S.D. Lee, and
                                B.F. Cheatham.MAJOR-GENERAL W. H. T. WALKER, C.S.A., KILLED
                                NEAR ATLANTA, JULY 22D, 1864. (FROM A
                                PHOTOGRAPH.) LT.-GENERAL S. D. LEE.
                                LIEUTENANT-GENERAL B. F. CHEATHAM, (FROM A
                                PHOTOGRAPH.)Cheatham on the Stump.1863 June 30thThe fortifications around Tullahoma were not complete, and a heavy
                            detail was mad to finish them as the
                            following order will show.Headqrts Polk's Corps Army of TennTullahoma Tenn June 30th
                            1863Maj Generals Cheatham and Withers =Generals, the Lieut Gen, commanding directs that you
                            furnish the necessary detail from your divisions to
                            Captain W.J. Morris to throw up breast works were
                            none exist along your lines.RespectfullyThos M. JackAsst Adj Gen.We lay all day and night in the ditches in the mud,
                            without shelter from the pelting rain. We had
                            nothing to eat, nor had we all day. The boys began
                            to get wrathy and hot, but the rain which kept
                            falling in continuous showers kept us cool. Generals
                            and men all fared alike in these ditches. During one
                            of the hardest rains that fell the writer
                            sawGen Cheatham on a stumpSitting as
                            complacently as if the sun was shining, with one
                            shoe off, and one of his big toes sticking out
                            through a hole in his sock.The enemy presented only a small force in our front
                            line, White the main force of his army hurried on to
                            our right flank, thus forcing Bragg from Tullahoma and disappointing
                            the men, of the anxiously expected battle, which
                            they were ready and waiting to give.Cowan.1863 July 1stWe left the ditches July 1st at day light, and went
                            in the direction of Cowan. The boys were mad and
                            wetter than "wet hens." We do not know whether thir
                            ruffled tempers were due to being wet and
                                mudy or to the fact the "Yanks" had
                            fooled them.After dark that evening Gen Polk received the
                            following dispatch from Gen Mackall, Bragg's Chief
                            of Staff.Deckard July 1st 63 =7.P.MGeneral= The enemy have reached your front close
                                up. The question to be decided instantly, Shall
                                we fight at the "Elk" or shall we take position
                                at the foot of the Mountain at Cowan.
                                Answer.W.W. MackallChief of StaffTo which Gen Polk replied:Allirona July 1st 8.PM.Gen Mackall: You ask, "Shall we fight on the Elk
                                or take position at the foot of the Mountain at
                                Cowan." In reply take position at the foot of
                                the Mountain at Cowan. In that case I think as
                                much of the wagon train as possible should be
                                throuwn over the Mountain, and a supply of grain
                                ordered up by railroad for the Animals we must
                                retain on this sideRespectfully L. PolkLieut General.University Place1863 July 2dArriving Gen Polk formed line of battle, and all the
                            wagon trains were hurried across the mountain, and
                            all the troops, except Polks Corps and Wheeler's
                            Cavalry. There was no fighting.That Bragg was moving to avoid and engagement was
                            very evident. After all the wagon trains, artillery
                            and troops had crossed over to the other side of the
                            mountain, save Polk's Corps and Wheeler's Cavalry,
                            Polk's men began climbing the mountain's steep and
                            rugged side. Cheatham's division was the last to
                            begin the assent, and that directly
                            over the tunnel. The Cavalry still battling with the
                            enemy's vanguard. After a long and tiresome pull up
                            the mountain, we camped on its top near "University
                            Place," July 3d Friday night.Gen Polk camp with Gen Cheatham that night near our
                            brigade. Since we had left the Shelbyville pike, the
                            enemy had kept pressing us hard by day, and with but
                            little relenting at night. It seemed the aim of the
                            enemy, by his incessant pursuit, was either to cut Bragg off from the river, or press him
                            so hard he could not cross all his army, and army
                            stores, and there by his probable capture might
                            result.If such was their aim, they made a complete failure.
                            At 8 oclock that night Gen Polk received the
                            following dispatch from Gen Wheeler, who was still
                            at the foot or nearly so of the mountain.We Crossed the River.1863 July 3dHeadquarters Cavalry Corps July 3d 1863RR
                                Crossing near University PlaceLieut Gen Polk,The enemy are engaging me
                                very warmly at this point, now after dark. Our
                                men are maintaining their groung bravely. The
                                enemy have infantry and cavalry and are
                                evidently reinforcing.RespectfullyJoseph WheelerMaj Gen.Leaving our encampment on the top of the mountain
                            early next morning, we descended the eastern slope
                            of the Cumberland and hastened on to the river.All the Army that had proceeded Polk and Wheeler had
                            crossed the river, part on the R.R. Bridge at
                            Bridgeport and part on pontoon at the mouth of
                            "Battle Creek." We crossed on the pontoon. Wither's
                            division after crossing the river moved out to White
                            sides, while Cheatham halted at "Shell Mound."
                            Cheatham had brought up the rear to the river and
                            there ended the pursuit, and the river remained the
                            picket line for both Armies for some time.We went into ChattanoogaJuly 7th 1863.Chapter XI.On the 7th day of July
                            1863, Bragg's tired and almost worn out Army
                        entered Chattanooga after a
                        long and remarkable march from Middle Tenn. The enemy
                        had pressed us so closely we experienced a feeling of
                        relief when we put the Tennessee river between us and
                        sat down around Chattanooga to
                        enjoy a quiet rest. Cheatham's division left the pike
                        some ten miles out from Shelbyville, made the march
                        through rain and mud, halting and marching, forming
                        lines of battle in ditches and out of ditches, pressed
                        day and night by a relentless foe; yet we came into
                            Chattanooga without the
                        loss of a single gun or a pound of Quartermaster's or
                        Commisary's stores or a round of ordinance, save what
                        was given to the citizens at Shelbyville as we were
                        leaving. Although there were some wounded and some were
                        taken sick on the way, yet our division made the march
                        and went into camp with four hundreed more men, than we
                        started with. Here around Chattanooga we had little to do save build
                        fortifications.For one week the Old 19th Tenn slept on the hill above
                        and overlooking the "Boat landing," on a high bluff
                        where we threw up fortifications.Change in Offices1863 July 30thOn the 10th July R.P. Nail 3d Lieut of Co "A" and
                            R.P. James was made 3d Lieut to fill the
                            vancancy.On the 28th O. Engledon was made 3d Lieut of Co "E"
                            in place of J.L. Waller who had been promoted.J.F. Tatham was made 3d Lieut of Co "F" in place of
                            Lieut R. Rhea who was killed on the Shelbyville
                            pike.We have been having a great time, so far since we
                            came to Chattanooga, until
                            now, the enemy having crossed a part of their Army,
                            on to this side of the river, and apart having gone
                            upon the other side to opposite the city. Picketing
                            again was in demmand for the two Armies were now
                            confronting each other. On August the 1st our
                            regiment, or a detail from the regiment was sent out
                            on picket under Lieut R.J. Tipton of Co "B" who late
                            in the evening was killed, when 2d Lieut T.M.
                            Brabron was promoted to 1st and A.C. Smith was made
                            2d Lieut.On the 15th Thos Cunningham 3d Lieut of Co "D"
                            resigned and R.W. Colvill was made 3d Lieut.On the 22d Aug Lieut R.W. Colville was promoted to
                            1st Lieut filling the vacancy made by the promotion
                            of Lieut S.J.A. Frazier to that of Captain 5th of
                            January last.The enemy kept steadly encroaching upon
                            the city from below inch by inch until he occupied Lookout valley, and the opposite
                            bank of the river infront of Chattanooga.The Rev Dr Palmer of New Orleans was with us, and had
                            been for some time. He was occupying one of the
                            churches in the city on Sunday morning August 21st the day appointed for
                                    humiliation & prayer by President
                                    Davis. The Church was filled with men, women, and
                            soldiers. While Dr Palmer was at prayers, the
                            Federals threw theabom in the city, the shell falling and
                            exploding in the street just in front of the church
                            door. The Dr did not stop in his prayer, nor look
                            up, but went on as if nothing had happened, although
                            it produced some little rustle of excitement. When
                            he had finished his prayer and had gotten up, he
                            found but few in the church. Nearly all had slipped
                            out quietly and gone home. Only three or four
                            soldiers remained & Maj CW Heiskell was one of
                            them. The Federals kept shelling the city at
                            intervals all day. One amongst the first shells
                            thrown exploding wounded a little girl breaking her
                            leg. And ou of this sad accident there came near
                            being a sad affair in our division and in our
                            regiment.The Challenge1863 Augst 21stA Challenge.The Father of our Lieut Col B.F. Moore was living
                            near the city at the time, and had in his home
                            several sick, in fact his home was full. The wounded
                            little girl was taken to Mr. Moore's home but was
                            refused admitance for want of room. Brig Gen Smith
                            of Cheathams division being present at the time made
                            some unkind remarks about Mr. Moore. These remarks
                            reaching the ears of our Lieut Colonel, he asked an
                            explanation of Gen Smith about the remark he should
                            have made about his Father. To Col Moore's mind no
                            satisfactory explanation was made, and he challenged
                            Gen Smith for a duel, which was accepted. By a
                            agreement Gen Smith, Lieut Col Moore and Maj. C.W.
                            Hinkell met in Col Moore's tent, where Maj Hinkell
                            poured oil on the troubled waters, and the two brave
                            officers separated good friends. The bombardment of
                            the city created considerable excitement in the
                            city, and activity in camp. For several days, at
                            intervals they continued to shell the city. Our
                            brigade was was
                            ordered out on duty about the 29 September.Chattanooga.1863 Sept 1stChattanooga TennSept
                            1st 1863Gen Cheatham =The Lieut Gen Commanding directs
                            that you order Strahl's brigade to take the position
                            now occupied by the regiment out on post duty on the
                            other side of Look Out Mountain. This brigade will
                            relieve that portion of Smith brigade on duty beyond
                            the mountain. You will like wise order Smith's
                            brigade to a suitable point on the Rossvill road
                            this side of the Mountain to guard and picket the
                            same.RespectfullyThos M JackAsst Adj Gen.Strahl made a Brig1863 Sept 3dAccordingly our brigade moved to the west side and
                            beyond Lookout Mountain, where Wood's division of
                            the enemy was posted, and trying cautiously to get a
                            peep around Lookout.At the same time Thomas was moving Southward down
                            Lookout valley beyond the mountain seeking a place
                            to cross. McCook also was moving in the same
                            direction, having crossed below Bridge Port at
                            Carpeston's ferry, aiming to get in the rear of
                            Bragg. Wood kept pressing Lookout point in order to
                            hold as much of Bragg's army as possible, and as
                            long as possible in Chattanooga.Col O.F. Strahl, who had been commanding the brigade
                            ever since Brig Gen Stuart was taken from us in
                            Middle Tenn, was now made a Brigadeer General.
                            Notwithstanding this promotion of Brigade Commander,
                            we continued to hold Lookout point for three or four
                            days.Gen Strahl sent the following dispatch to Gen Polk
                            from our position beyond the MountainLookout pointSept 6th 1863Lieut Gen Polk Commanding Corps, The enemy are just
                            in front of my pickets. Send a battery if you can
                            immediately.O.F. StrahlBrig GenThis was O.F. Strahl's first order as Brig Gen.Lee & Gordon's Mills1863 Sept 6thThis was the third day we had been on the west side
                            of Lookout Mountain, opposing Wood's division of
                            Crittenden's Corps. While they advanced slowly
                            feeling their way, we offered but little
                            resistance.In the mean time Bragg had been busy moving every
                            thing from Chattanooga,
                            and had about gotten all away. On the morning of the
                            5th the enemy began crossing the river at Harrison
                            above Chattanooga, and
                            began to gather around Bragg like bees. For Bragg now
                            to leave Chattanooga was
                            one of the inevitables, and to this end Gen Polk
                            issued the following.Headquarters Polk's CorpsChattanooga Tenn Sept 6th
                            1863Maj Gen Cheatham,General= the Lieut Gen
                            Commanding directs that you have your command placed
                            in readiness to move with out delay, with three days
                            rations.RespectfullyThos M. JackAsst Adj Gen.Bragg left Chattanooga the
                            morning of September the 7th and moved out in the
                            direction of LafayetteGa. We reached Lee &
                            Gordon's Mills on the ChickmaugaChickamauga late in the evening of same day about
                            thirteen miles from Chattanooga. Here we rested two days.
                            The enemy's Cavalry were in McLemore's Cove but a
                            short distance west of us, while Thomas and McCook
                            were on this side of Lookout Mountain.Lafayette1863 Sept 12thCrossing the ChickmaugaChickamauga here, the Army moved on, as far as
                            Lafayette where Polk halted, while the remainder of
                            the Army rested around and beyond Peavine Church.
                            Crittenden had followed us closely all the way to
                            Lee & Gordon's Mills. Here he stopped but sent a
                            small force as far as Rock Springs about half way to
                            Lafayette, and also one out to Pea Vine Church. We
                            lay around Lafayette GaGeorgia. three or four days, during which time
                            Thomas and McCook had crossed Lookout and Missionary
                            ridge and camped at Crawfish Springs. By this time
                            Crittenden had pushed a heavier force out to Peavine
                            Creek. The night of the 11th Cheatham received
                            orders to be ready and with the rest of Polk's Corps
                            move against Crittenden.Lafayette GaSept 12th 1863 3. A.M.Maj Gen Cheatham =The Lieut Gen Commanding
                            directs you hold your command in readiness to move
                            at day light. You will move light carrying your
                            Ambulances and ordnance trains.Respt Thos M JackAsst Adj Gen.We beat the long roll, and had the men in line by the
                            first streak of the gray dawn, the morning of the
                            12th We felt assured something was going to be done.
                            The men were ready and waiting were in line and standing not arms
                            when the following was received.Rock Springs1863 Sept 15thLafayette GaSept 12th 1863= 9. AM.Maj Gen Cheatham =The Lieut Gen Commanding
                            directs that you at once proceed to Rock Springs
                            with your division and take positionRespectfully- Thos M JackAsst Adj Gen.Leaving Lafayette that evening, we took position a
                            short distance beyond Rock Spring Church on the
                            Crawfish Spring road. Hindman's division was posted
                            on the right of us in the direction of Pea Vine
                            Creek. The next day Cheatham moved out to Lee &
                            Gordon's Mills, and on reaching the top of the
                            ridge, over looking the bottoms in front of the
                            mill, our brigade was thrown forward as a skirmish
                            line Maj C.W. Heiskell was in
                                    charge of the 19th Tenn regiment skirmishing and so close came
                                        the enemy that we could hear them give
                                        the command to the cannoneers and then
                                        the cannon boomed.  Nothing however was developed by this move, as we saw it
                            from rank and file. Only a few cannon shots were
                            exchanged and a little picket firing. We returned to
                            Rock Spring where we remained untill the 18th
                            September.Chapter XII.The Battle of Chickamauga.There had been a great deal of maneuvering of troops
                            in both armies in the last few days.The demonstration the enemy had made south of the
                            Chickamauga, was only feeling for Bragg to find
                            where he was, and what he intend doing. During the
                            mornning of the 18th Thomas who had been at Crawfish
                            Springs moved to the enemy's extreme left and took
                            position facing Alexander's and Reed's bridges on
                            the ChickmaugaChickamauga. Baird and Branner formed Thomas' left.
                            Crittenden occupied Rosencran's center and McCook
                            held his extreme rightRosencrans held all the crossings on the ChickmaugaChickamauga in the morning of the 18th with an advance
                            line out front from the creek to disput any advance
                            of Bragg's army.Early in the mornign of the 18th the order of line of
                            battle was read, and the command to advance and
                            cross the ChickmaugaChickamauga was given. Johnson's column of Hoods command
                            composed of five brigades was to advance and cross
                            at Reed's bridge. He met the enemy near Peavine
                            Creek, but they fell back, and Johnson reached the
                            bridge without much trouble.1863 Sept 18thWalker was to cross at Alexanders brige and Buckner
                            to cross at Tedford's ford.Polk to cross where ever he could between Lee &
                            Gordon's Mills and Tedford's ford. Walker met with
                            such strong opposition that he was forced to go down
                            the creek to Bryant's ford a mile or more below,
                            where he succeeded in crossing. The old 19th was in
                            Polk's command which was composed as follows. Polk's Corps.DivisionsCheatham'sHindman'sCheatham's divisionBrigadsManey'sSimth'sWright'sStrah'sStrahl's brigade4th & 5th Tenn Col. J.J.
                                        Lamb19th " " F.M. Walker24th " " J.A. Wilson31st Tenn Col. E.E. TansilStafford's Battery.During the night of the 18th Bragg had crossed his
                                Vetran Army and formed his lines,
                            with Rosencrans in his front, and the bounding
                            turbulent Chickamauga with but few places to cross
                            at his back. All had crossed but Cheatham's
                            division, which had remained on the south or east
                            side of the creek, until the next morning the 19th
                            while we had not marched very far yet we were
                            without rations, depending upon our supply train,
                            which failed to come up.1863 Sept 19thThe general surface of the battlefield was so rough
                            and so heavely timbered that the two armies lay
                            during the night in closer proximity than perhaps
                            they supposed. Rosencrans had all the advantage as
                            to position, as he picked his own ground, giving
                            Bragg only room enough to form between him and the
                            Chickamauga over which he could not have crossed
                            with his army with success to prevent capture, had
                            he been defeated. While Rosencrans, in case he
                            should be defeated had all the roads open and free
                            in his rear.He had unquestionably the advantage as to numbers, he
                            having from 65,000 to  while Bragg had about 60,000
                            men.Saturday morning came in bright and clear, and the
                            glittering bayonets on the Rebel gunsfreflected in
                            the sun light presaged no retreat - victory or
                            death. Cheatham's division left its bivouac early
                            Saturday morning, and crossed the Chickamauga at
                            Hunt's bridge, a rude construction for farm use,
                            about one mile below Lee & Gordon's Mills, moved
                            rapidly to the front, to our right, where from
                            Walker's guns the red tide of battle began, and was
                            rolling down the line to our left, while the even
                            roar of musketry broken only by the loud peals from
                            the iron mouthed cannons, showed clearly the battle
                            had opened in earnest. We double quicked through the
                            woods, and the rough ground which threw our regiment
                            out of line.Give them what Cheatham
                            says.1863 Sept 19thHaving nearly reached the line then engage directly
                            in our front, we halted but for a few
                                minuts to straighten our lines.While we were yet standing, Gen Cheatham came riding
                            rapidly along in front of our line, saying "Give
                            them hell boys, give them hell." He was not out of
                            sight, and scarcely out of hearing had there been no
                            roar of battle, when Gen Polk came in full tilt upon
                            his heels saying, "Give them what Cheatham says, we
                            will pay off old chores to day."Notwithstanding the tumult and uproar of battle, the
                            bursting of shells, the cracking of grape and minnie
                            balls against the trees, there went up a "Rebel
                            Yell" that vied with the roar of battle. Just as Gen
                            Polk passed our regiment, two of Co "A" who were
                            standing at the head of the regiment leaning against
                            and on opposite sides of a small black Jack, a
                            capped shell came crashing through the woods, struck
                            this tree just between the two men but did not
                            explode. It ricocheted and struck the men, they were knocked down and had to go to the
                            rear.We could have put our hand on the shoulder of one of
                            the men. This ended their part of the fight for the
                            day. As we went into the battle we met seemingly
                            more men coming out wounded than were going in.Chickamauga.Map of Chickamauga Battlefield.LT.-GENERAL A. P. STEWART.Portrait of A.P. Stuart.Some of them were being carried, others were able to
                            walk. the sight was anything else than inspiring and
                            encouraging.What ever thoughts and feelings of fear were passing
                            through the minds of the brave boys, were soon
                            dispelled for we moved at once into the thicket of
                            the fight. No one knew what havoc was being made
                            save only in his immediate vicinity.Cheatham had been ordered to the assistance of Gen
                            Walker who had opened the battle and had been
                            engaged some time against stubborn force and from whom he had
                            captured three pieces of Scribner's battery, and
                            was, when Cheatham arrived, being driven back,
                            assulted in front and on both flanks. When Cheatham
                            struck the advancing enemy, he not only checked his
                            advance but drove him back. There was a small
                            clearing only a few rods wide around one side of
                            which was a thick growth. Over this spot of ground
                            both Armies had been, and each had left their dead
                            and wounded to mark theIllfated Spot.Ill fated Spot.1863 Sept 19thHere the Old 19th lost most of her men. Here Capt Wm
                            Lackey of Co "E" fell, a minnie ball passing through
                            his hat band in front and coming out beneath the hat
                            behind. This Spot of ground was thickly strewn with
                            dead, who wore the "Blue" and who wore "Gray."Ben O. Looney a brave soldier
                                    of Co K fell here.From this fearful fire of the enemy Strahl's
                            brigade recoiled, but for a moment as it were yet in
                            range of the enemy's fire, just sufficient to rally
                            from the shock of this fire, especially deadly to
                            the Old 19th which seemed to have suffered most.ChickmaugaChickamauga1863 Sept 19thFrom this point, Cheatham ordered our brigade to the
                            support of Gen Smith, but a few hundred yards from where we were, and soon we were at it
                            again. My recollection s that he hot fire we were
                                in, and where I was wounded use after we were
                                directed to relieve Gen Smiths brigade he
                                directed us to far to the left and we had to
                                move by the right flank to get in position. CW.
                                Heiskil. From some came a gap in our line
                            had been made to our right, and the enemy began
                            filing through it, flanking us. We were ordered, to
                            drive back this column of the enemy and fill the
                            gap. The Old 19th occupied the extreme right of our
                            brigade, and as we moved our regiment got the full
                            benefit both of the flanking column and the one in
                            our front.Strahl's brigadeDiagram of regiment positions.We had to fall back some fifty or a hundred yards to
                            head off this flanking column.Our brigade at this point lost in killed and wounded
                            about two hundred men, of which number, the old 19th
                            had more than any other regiment in the brigade. In
                            this engagement Maj. C.W. Heiskell was wounded.Maney's brigade came to our assistance, and we drove
                            the enemy back, and filled the gap.1863 Sept 19thThe 19th, 31 & 33d Tennessee regiments were then
                                trown forward in advance of the
                            main line, and took possession of a skirt of woods,
                            and held it for some time under a most galling
                            fire.Gen Wright, who was on our right, had been under fire
                            for two long hours of hard fighting, the enemy
                            reinforcing in his front, would have forced him back
                            but for the timely arrival of CleburnCleburne, which also saved us, who then fought with Cheathamfought Johnson and Baird like tigers,
                            capturing some Artillery, guns, colors and several
                            hundred prisnersprisoners. To say the battle was fierce and fighting
                            hard was not enough. We drove them back toward the
                            road leading to Chattanooga. In this charge of
                            Cheatham's Brig Gen Smith was killed. He fell at the
                            head of the regiment he commanded so long as
                            Colonel, and was then commanding as General. He was
                            soon followed by two of his staff, who fell near
                            about the same time. This was the last charge of
                            Cheatham for this day. We bivouaced in line of
                            battle that night.It was after dark when Gen LonstreetLongstreet's men or the greater part of them, came
                            onto the field. As soon as he formed his lines, in
                            the dark he attacked the enemy on our left, and for
                            one hour the roar of battle was heard again.The firing ceased on our left about nine oclock at
                            night, when silence was allowed to
                            quietly rested upon the two Armies for the night.The firing had been kept up so constantly all the day
                            long, and until the late hour at night, that the air
                            was almost stifeling from the smoke of
                            the battle. We had not gained much ground, but our
                            whole line was encamped on ground occupied by the
                            enemy the morning before. Each army
                                diring the day had been driven back
                            and forth over the same field repeatedly. And nought
                            could be heard, save the few low pitiful moans of
                            the suffering, some calling for water, some for
                            help, but neither could be had. None dare venture,
                            lest he too would fall, and perhaps lower then those
                            whome he would help. The stars came. And the moon
                            with pitying eye looked down through the dense smoke
                            and foliage, upon the thousands of plac
                            faces silent in death, "While the wind passed o'er with a dirge and
                                    a wailWhere the young and the brave were
                                    lying." There was but little sleep on the field of
                            carnage that night, and perhaps less in hundreds of
                            houses in the Sunny South, where mothers, sisters,
                            and wives, were praying for their dear ones, many of
                            whom that same hour were lying upon the battle field
                            of Chickamauga in that
                            sleep that knows no waking.Nearly all night long, in front of where we were,
                            could be heard the axes of the enemy, busily
                            preparing for the coming day's struggle.The Sun veiling his face.1863 Sept 20thOur boys were silent and thoughtful, ready to take
                            what ever the "Fates" decreed.The night next morning a dense fog from the
                            Chickamauga mingled with the smoke of
                                Satturday's battle, covered all the
                            valley. Through this fog and smokeThe Sun
                            veiling his face,looked as if made of blood,
                            thus presaging an other baptism of fire that was to
                            dye the field of battle a deeper crimson.
                                Somhow it seemed to have infused
                            new life into our men, for after the sleeplessness
                            and silence of the night came life and activity. The
                            lines of both Armies had been shortened during the
                            night, and the boys were ready and waiting for the
                            coming struggle, which was soon to wake the echoes
                            from the hill to hill, and carry with it hundreds
                            more of noble and brave men into Death's capacious
                            maw.Orders had been given to open the battle at the break
                            of day, but from some cause, it was 8 or 9 oclock
                            before the first sound of conflict was heard, when
                            it came rolling down the line as it did, from right
                            to left, the morning before.Gen Polk opened the attack this morning with intense
                            fury. The enemy had prepared breast works behind
                            which they intended to fight that day, but our men
                            charged them with desperate determination to take
                            and hold them.The boys looked with indifference upon what ever the
                            enemy had made for their protection not intending to
                            fight behind works, they did not make any. But what ever they took
                            shelter behind, our boys intend to drive them from
                            it.A death struggle1863 Sept 20th The fighting this morning wasA death
                            struggle.The tug of war was between two brave armies. The
                            bravery of such men, the determination to win or
                            die, banished all fear. All along the line our men
                            pressed forward yielding no ground. So desperate was
                            the conflict in several places a hand to hand fight
                            was waged, and the clashe of bayonets were heard.
                                Gen Hood broke the
                            enemy's line at or near the Brotheston house where
                            he received a seviersevere wound in the leg, which necessitated the
                            amputation of the limb.From this position on our left, the enemy were driven
                            back to the Crawfish Spring road below the Widow
                            Glen's. Longstreet was
                            now driving the enemy's right, around like a barn
                            dorr, while all along great chasms were being made
                            in his lines. So dreadful now was the storm of
                            battle, and the deadly fire of the Confederate guns
                            who surged forward like an ocean of fire that the right wing of the enemy could not stand
                            it. Hindman's division swung around on the spurs of
                            Mission Ridge, when he had men killed by being
                            pierced with the bayonet. Here he captured about
                            twelve hundred (1,200) prisners.Chickamauga1863 Sept 20Bragg kept pressing the
                            right of Rosencrans until
                            he fled from the field in confusion seeking safety
                            within the limits of Chattanooga.But not so with his left, where Thomas had been
                            driven back to an elevation near the Snodgrass
                            residence. Here Rosencrans had reinforced Thomas,
                            who having such a strong position held his ground
                            against repeated attempts to Bragg to dislodge him,
                            until night fall, when he abandoned the field,
                            leaving the battle field of Chickamauga in our hands
                            with all that a battlefield claims.Thus ended one of the greatest battles of the War & of world. The casualties of modern warfare of
                                Europ has but one parallel. Of the
                            two great armies here engaged, Rosencrans and Bragg
                            each lost about one third 1/3 of his army 331/3
                            percent. In this battle the old 19th Tenn lost about
                            40% of her men.Of the Generals, Maj Gen Hood lost a leg, Maj Gen
                            Hindman slightly wounded, while Brig Generals Helm,
                            Smith, and Deshler were killed, and Brig Gen Adams,
                            Greg and McNairy were badly wounded.Upon the sanguin fields of Virginia more
                            men had been marshalled in one array, but the armies
                            did not suffer that fearful rate of loss as they did
                            in this one. We can not give a ful list
                            of our loss in the old 19th Tenn. We can only give a
                            partial list of the casualties.Casualties1863 Sept 20thKilled.CoHawley Martin C.Co"G"Jolley W.F.""D"Cook William""H"Lackey Capt Wm W.""E"Looney Benj O-""K"Traynor Mike""Stover Jake""Swan Wm""McAndry JW""Wounded.Heiskell Maj C.W.Tresby JohnCo"D"Wright ThomasMcPherson FrankCo"C"Rhea Lieut J.H.""G"Blair Capt R.L.""Barnette J.W.""D"Hawk Lieut H.D.""Frazier Capt S.J.A.""Girham James""H"Bratober John""Sims Lieut J.M""F"Delanas Wm""McAndry J.W.""K"Kelley W.A.""Carmack John"KMitchell John""Parrot DanRenfroe James""Johnson Andy G"KCaptured.Frazier Capt J.S.A.Co"D"Russell WR""G"Frazier Clark""Hally Bill"CCooper John""Lee and Gordon's Mills.Photograph of Lee and Gordon's
                                Mills.Snodgrass HousePhotograph of the Snodgrass House, General
                                Thomas' Headquarters.The lone cedar-Missionary Ridge.Photograph of the lone cedar on Missionary
                                Ridge, General Bragg's Headquarters during
                                Battle of Mission Ridge.Chapter XIII.Chattanooga.After the battle of Chickamauga, Rosencrans hastened to Chattanooga and began
                            preparations for the evacuation of city, fully
                            expecting Bragg to thrust
                            his iron column of Rebels through the city and take
                            it.In his flight from the field of Chickamauga, he left
                            all his dead and wounded that he did not get into
                                Chattanooga during the
                            battle, on the field. But owing to
                            Bragg's tardiness in pressing the pursuit, gave
                            Rosencrans time to compose himself, and form a line
                            of defense around the city about one and a half
                            miles out. This was Bragg's way of doing, he would
                            gain the victory, drive in his nails, but would not
                            clinch them, and soon the enemy would redraw the
                            nails and claim the victory.The enemy, while they do not claim a victory in this
                            battle, claim that Bragg made a failure in as much as he failed
                            to enter Chattanooga and
                            hold it, which Surely ought to have
                                    been his aim and purpose.For days our men were busy burrying the
                            dead, caring for the wounded that remained on the
                            field, which was covered with guns, blankets,
                            swords, knapsacks, and accouterments. Caissons,
                            broken Ambulances, dead men and dead horses lay
                            thick all over the field.1863 Sept 22It would perhaps be useless to attempt a
                                discription of the scenes of
                            suffering here. The crazed condition of many of
                            those poor fellows, whose brains had been plowed by
                            the deadly bullet, both Federal and Rebel yet living
                            but unable to tell of their suffering was a pitiable spectacle
                                    indeed.Others we saw dying rejoicing in the ful
                            hope of a glorious immortality. One happy Christian,
                            we saw as we were passing, lying on the ground with
                            a rock for a pillow, wounded so badly that the
                            surgeons had passed him by as being beyond any
                            possible hope of benefit, dying. Exhorting every one
                            around, and all, whose eye he would catch to become
                            Christian, he would put the pertinent questions "Are
                            you a Christian," "Do you love Jesus." There were
                            many of this kind bath of the Blue and the Gray, we
                            could go on and mention of the scenes of a similar
                            character, but we must desist.Bragg followed the enemy slowly and closely and
                            established his lines around Chattanooga parallel to those of
                            Rosencrans.Bragg and Rosencrans settled down to work with pick
                            and spade directly under each others guns with all
                            their might, as if preparing a grave each one for
                            the other. Bragg kept pushing the enemy's lines in
                            on the city until he held the river from Lookout
                            point to about half way to the city, and from Sherman heights to the
                            river above. For days the Videtts of each army stood
                            in two hundred yards of, and gazed at each other
                            like grim monsters.The valley around and out from Chattanooga was litteraly blockaded with
                            breast works, and plowed up with rifle pits. The
                            crest of Missionary ridge,
                            its base and sides were furrowed with rifle pits and
                            covered with cannon. Every now and then from the
                            summit of Lookout Mountain
                            were sent savage hissing shells which would fall and
                            burst in the camp of the enemy. For days the pickets
                            of each army sat in their "Gopher" pits cracking
                            jokes with each other, while from the top of Missionary ridge and the
                            rocky peak of Lookout went shrieking messengers of
                            death over their heads unnoticed and uncared for by
                            them, while the signal flags from the mountaintops
                            talked with each other in their silent way over the
                            enemy's camps.A Strange Scene.1863 Sept 25thA strange scene.A peculiar scene is here presented in the two
                            encampments of supposed hostile foes. Both armies
                            under the range of a single shot. The bands of the
                            two Armies played for the entertainment of each
                            other. Sweet notes of "Dixie" were wafted towards
                            the city, over the encampment of the enmy &
                            these were met on the way by those of "Yankee
                            Doodle" coming over to us. An other uncommon
                                feture of these two encampments,
                            was while the enemy could plainly see the men and
                            officers moving around Bragg's headquarters and
                            along the tops of the ridge, we in turn from the top
                            of Lookout and the ridge with glasses could see what
                            the "Yankees" had for dinner. While here Bragg had
                            detailed a special Secret Scout. For what purpose or
                            whither they went no one but the detail ever
                            knew.The Secret Scout.1863 Octo 5thThisSecret Scoutwas told it had a hazardous
                            undertaking. It was a volunteer detail. There was
                            one from each company of the Old 19th Those of our
                            regiment had to report to Lieut A.C. Smith of Co
                            "B."We can recall but the names of Lieut Smith Co "B,"
                            Jack Lackey of Co "E" Harrison Chase Co "G," and
                            C.C. Moore of Co "H" and Jack Williford of Co "K",
                                    John W. Fields Co C who was captured &
                                    died in camp Charl. We did not get the news of them at the time.
                            About one fourth of this detail never returned, nor
                            did we ever hear any report from them. Thursday
                            night October the 22d
                            our division (Cheatham's) was ordered to Tiner's a
                            station on the ET.Va&Ga RR.We moved out in one of the hardest rains of the
                            season, feeling our way through the gloom and
                            darkness of the night which seemed almost
                            inpenetrable. Over the rough ridges through the the
                            dark and muddy hollows we went, and reached the
                            station, cold and wet, and took the cars for Knoxville. There were three
                            trains of cars for us ready and waiting.Sick flour1863 Nov 6thOur brigade took the middle section and moved out an
                            on without a hitch or jar, until somewhere above
                                Cleveland, where two
                            cars of the front section broke loose, started back
                            met the second section on a curve. The engine drove
                            in the end of and split one of the cars open.The sudden jar, when it struck, knocked off a good
                            many of the men on our section, who in turn hallooed
                            to the rest on the train, "Jump the rear train is
                            right on you." And such and other jumping out of
                            cars, the writer one of them. Those on top of the
                            cars seeing there was no danger, remained. No one
                            was hurt except from jumping. The writer was hurt a little, having fallen on his back
                            instead of his feet.We moved on, reaching Charleston, where the bridge having been
                            burned, we left the cars. On our arrival here we
                            found Gen Stevenson's division, who had prepared
                            temporary crossing, a rude kind of pontoon bridge
                            across the Hiwassee river.We could cross only in single file, but were soon
                            over, and moved on up the road as far as sweetwater, where we halted
                            and remained two days. Here we had issued us what
                            the boys called "Sick flour," from which we made
                            biscuit. Having no lard or grease of any kind, our
                            biscuits were made up with salt and water.Of all the sick boys for a while we had not seen
                            since our "Goose Creek" episode, where honey became
                            too sweet to be good. Our biscuits were so hard we
                            saw several of the boys gouge holes in the biscuits
                            and fill them with powder and blow them open, so, as
                            they said, they could be eaten. While we were here,
                            Gen Longstreet came up took our place, and being
                            relieved we retraced our steps to Chattanooga.Change in division1863 Nov 22dOn our return, our brigade (Strahl's) was transfered
                            from Cheatham's to Stewart's division, but we
                            returned to our old quarters in the ditches around
                                Chattanooga.Sunday morning Nov 22d
                            Rufus Lamb and my self went upon Lookout point where
                            we had a grand view of the encampments of both
                            Armyies. The enemy's two pontoons, one below
                            Lookout, the other in front of the city, were in
                            plain view. Walthrall's brigade, of 1,300 men, was
                            around on the west side of the mountain. They had
                            only two pieces of Artillery. We were on Lookout
                            nearly all day. Hooker's men who were in the valley
                            just beyond were in plain view, and were on the move
                            all the time. Taking advantage of the bushes, and
                            the spurs of the hills to obscure their
                            movements.They were maneuvering for an attack on "Point
                            Lookout." They had a battery of four guns, on one of
                            the knolls across the river from Lookout which kept
                            up a constant shelling of the point all evening.
                            This battery was near the toe of the Moccasin. We
                            had quite often to take shelter behind the large
                            ledges of rock projected some several feet high.Battle above the Clouds.1863 Nov 24thHooker began moving against Walthrall in the morning
                            of the 24th moving slowly and fighting, as he
                                assended the mountain side, all the
                            day. He reached the Craven House about
                            4 P.M.Before night a heavy fog cloud that had gathered down
                            the mountain, and was too heavy to scale the
                            mountain's misty top, moved up the mountain towards
                            the river, and enveloped the men as they fought,
                            shutting all view of the battle save the flash of
                            their guns. And for this the fight was
                            calledThe battle above the clouds.The battle lasted until long after dark. The ground
                            was so rough that no line could be observed and so close were
                            the two contending forces that it was with difficulty you could mark the
                            line between them. The whole side of the mountain
                            was covered with men firing from behind trees and
                            rocks. The flash of their guns resembeled fire
                            flies. Our division lay in the Valley and watched
                            the battle above the clouds.That night was clear and frosty. About ten oclock,
                            the moon being a little below the zenith passed
                            through an almost total Eclips. We had
                            not yet been to sleep and we lay out on the ground
                            and watched the moon as she passed through the
                            shadow of the earth.MOCCASIN BEND, IN THE TENNESSEE
                                        RIVER AT CHATTANOOGAX Line of
                                        battle = "In the clouds."Photograph of Moccasin Bend,
                                        Chattanooga.Chattanooga1863 Nov 24thWhile we lay around Chattanooga, although not fighting,
                            still Death made her requisitions upon us, and we
                            could not shirk the demmand.So there were detailed to satisfy the demmand Widerman J.P.Co"A"Stowe Richard""F"Deakin Charles""B"Raney J.R.""Morgan Andrew""C"Sharp F.E.""Martin Harris""F"Smit Ranson""Micheals J.H.""Hashberger J.D.""K"These died while we were here. We do not know how
                            many had died since that battle of the wounded at
                            Chickamauga.Chapter XIV.Missionary Ridge.As the old town clock on the City Hall struck the
                            hour of one at night, the whole of Bragg's Army
                            could have been seen moving for the crest of
                            Missionary Ridge to form a new line of battle.Our brigade left its ditches in the valley and formed
                            line along the top of the ridge about two hundred
                            yards from Gen Braggs head quarters. In forming our
                            lines, we put one line as skirmishers at the foot of
                            the ridge, and had only a single line on the top.
                            Our two lines, the one at the foot and the other on
                            top of the ridge, were so deployed that neither formed a good skirmish line.Out to our right, and out in front of Bragg's
                            headquarters, was a knoll which the Federals had
                            covered with cannon, and from these batteries they shelled our brigade and regiment. Stafford's battery
                            was placed with our regiment.The Sun, as it mounted the ninth hour of its watch,
                            taking in the grand review, saw quite a difference
                            in the two Armies as they lay in unrest, waiting for
                            the coming conflict.Bragg's Army not its former self, depleted by the
                            battle of Chickamauga had not been strenthened by
                            reinforcements.Gregg and others had been returned to Johnson and
                            Longstreet had been detached and sent to Knoxville. Bragg had but a
                            hand full compared with the swell army of
                            Rosencrans. the latter had been reinforced, and the
                            wear and tear had been more than made good by large
                            reinforcements.While we were on the top of Missionary ridge
                            earnestly watching the busy maneuvering of the
                            enemy, there was one of the Old 19th who for the
                            first time was observed sitting a few steps away
                            alone, and seemingly unconscious of the excitement
                            that was then moving and agitating Bragg's whole
                            Army.Lieut Col B.F. Moore.This was ourLieut Col B.F. Moorethe bravest
                            of the brave. We believe, if Lieut Col Moore had
                            thought there was one drop of cowardly blood
                            coursing his veins, he would have severed every
                            artery to let it out.If there be any such thing as premonition of coming
                            danger, the sould of Lieut Col Moore must have been
                                heavely pressed by such an unseen
                            power. There he sat, quietly waiting the decrees of
                            the inexorable "Fates," wholy oblivious of his
                            surroundings. About noon Col Moore's Father came up
                            to our regiment, and the Col gave to him every thing
                            he had about his person, his knife, comb, money,
                            watch, etc. The battle had not yet opened, but the
                            enemy was maneuvering his thousands before the
                            skirmish line of the Confederates.Missionary Ridge1863 Nov 25The very air smelt of battle, and the winds as they
                            came sweeping the crest of Missionary ridge made sad
                            music as if the precursor of the coming storm. Bragg
                            had the heaviest part of his line on the right,
                            while his left was strung out until it presented
                            only a single and deployed line.About 2 oclock in the evening, the sound of musketry
                            and cannons were heard on our extreme right, and
                            grandly came on down the ridge towards us and rolled
                            across the valley like a wave at high tide. The
                            enemy made a vigorous assault on our right, but our
                            men held their places, not only against one but
                            repeated attacks. Gen CleburnCleburne after he had exhausted his ammunition,
                            continued to fight by rolling large bowlders down
                            the steep sides of the ridge. About 31/2 oclock in
                            the evening, Thomas advanced on our left with it seemed to us ten
                                    thousand where with our brigade we had only a
                            skirmish line. We counted right in our front four
                            double columns of the enemy, all moving directly
                            against our brigade of a single line. These columns
                            of the enemy seemed to us to be not more than
                            seventy or a hundred yard apart. In front of our
                            regiment at the foot of the ridge, was a small field
                            not more than fifty yards wide, across this these
                            four columns had to pass. On the Federals came with
                            that determined step that defied all opposition. Our
                            men from the top of the ridge and from the foot
                            while they were crossing 1863 Nov 25th poured so heavy a fire into them, both of
                            musketry and cannon, that after they had crossed, there were left on the field men dead and wounded
                            as thick as stumps in a new ground. Several of the
                            lines at that foot of the hill never reached the
                            top. Whether they were killed or captured we never
                            knew. Those who did reach the top came amid a shower
                            of bullets that plowed the ground and skined the
                            trees all around them. The air between the ridge and
                            Orchard Knob was filled with shot and shells. The
                            ridge where we were was quite steep but the enemy
                            came on crawling up the steep ascent like bugs and they were so thick they were almost in each others
                            way. Our men fell back to a spur of the ridge,
                            leaving the top under a most galling fire, passing
                            down the slope and across an open field to our new
                            position on this spur.As we descended the ridge Tom Kennedy, an Irishman of
                            Co "C" did not stop to load his gun, but would turn
                            around every now and then, tok off his
                            hat, and shake it at the enemy, while the minnie
                            balls were hissing all around him.Thomas Kennedy, brave soldier, finally fell in line
                            of battle, in the 22d July fight around Atlanta.General Strahl formed his men on the spur of the
                            ridge, just opposite the position we had left, where
                            we checked and held them for a short time. They
                            charged us from the front and at the same time a
                            column of the enemy was moving to our left flank and
                            rear.Death of Lieut Col Moore.1863 Nov 25thIn this charge our Lieut Col B.F. Moore was killed
                            and his brother John was captured, whether he was
                            wounded or not we do not know, any way he remained
                            with the Col. The Col. fell on his Father's place
                            almost in sight and in hearing of home.The Federals with an overwhelming force agains
                            Bragg's left wing, drove it back, and had succeeded
                            in gaining his rear by our left flank, these by
                            forcing Bragg from the Ridge, and across the
                            Chickamauga. Our brigade crossed the Chickamauga
                            after dark by the light of large fires on the creek
                            bank, and being the last to cross, were kept on
                            picket all the night on the eastern bank of the
                            Creek. We are unable to give all the names of the
                            killed & wounded, what few we could get are Moore Lieut Col B.F.KilledLyons DanCo"C"CapturedMoore JamesCo"B"CapturedFields John""KilledBruden J.M""A"CapturedJohnson M.S.""D""Bowers James""B""McRussell Hugh"""Smith Capt Win""C"WoundedFord James J.""G"CapturedAllison Bob"""Ensinger Thos""H"wounded.Burnette Frank"""Holley Wash B"G"see page 340-11Huffmaster James H-killed.Johnson Andy G.Co"K"woundedThe next morning early, the Army began passing
                            through Chickamauga station, our brigade, being on
                            picket, was the last one to go through.Before our brigade left the station we burned a few
                            cars loaded with corn.Missionary Ridge1863 Nov 26thThere were a few dead lying here and there, some in
                            yards, and others out on the commons. These had been
                            killed that morning by sharp shooters and by shells.
                            They still remained when we left.The enemy occupied a ridge near by, from which they
                            kept up a constant shelling all the time we at the
                            station making it lively for us, but we did not
                            leave until we were ready.We passed out east of the W&A.R.R.Western and Atlantic
                                    Railroad; and on across a ridge when we turned
                            southward in the direction of RinggoldGaGeorgia. The ridge we had just crossed was under
                            cultivation, and a fence ran along the crest of it
                            for some distance.After we had gone beyond some distance, we looked
                            back, and the Federals had just gained the tops of
                            the ridge and had lined the fence.We tarried not, nor did we loiter by the way, for the
                            enemy's vanguard in a measure was our rear guard,
                            they no doubt captured every now and then some of
                            our men who happened to straggle too far behind. We
                            did not rush but moved slowly on account of our
                            wagon train, so that the enemy kept close upon
                            us.As we retreated and showed no disposition of
                            resistance, the enemy became more bold, causing us
                            to halt and form line of battle more than once,
                            before reaching Ringgold,
                            twelve miles from Chickamaug
                            Station. We passed on through Ringgold, and Ringgold Gap, where we
                            halted, with all the division train wagons about
                            half mile beyond the Gap Stewarts division was put
                            in easey position for action
                            if needed,Cleburne in Ringgold Gap.1863 Nov 28thCleburnCleburne's division was placed inRinggold
                            Gap.This gap is a pass through Taylor's ridge about half
                            a mile below the town of the same name. Through it
                            there is just room enough for the creek, the public
                            road and the Rail Road. Thick undergrowth &
                            vines covered every available space between the
                            creek and the roads. In this gap CleburnCleburne's men were concealed by the thick
                            undergrowth, on the morning of November the 28th and
                            a position up the north eastern slope of the hill.
                            Here CleburnCleburne waited the slow approach of the enemy. The
                            whole of Polk's Corps was in easey reach, and at his
                            back. The enemy entered the Gap with closley compact column, dreaming naught
                            of an Ambush awaiting them, until CleburnCleburne opened upon them unexpectedly such a
                            deadly fire that they had to retreat leaving in the Gap five
                            hundred dead, besides their wounded. This put a
                            quietus to their enthusiasm. We moved on to Dalton, unmolested, reaching
                            that place on Nov 30th Our division (Stewart's)
                            encamped on the ridge one mile below "Rocky face"
                            and west of the City.Chapter XV.Around Dalton.Our camp fires had scarcely began to burn in our new
                            encampment around Dalton
                            Ga before Gen Bragg laid aside his official robes to
                            be put upon the shoulders of an other.December the 2d 1863,
                            Gen Bragg issued his last orders to the men he had
                            commanded for the last eighteen months, and whome he
                            had led in several hard fought battles. He was
                            endeared to the men by sharing with them the
                            hardships and toils of army life, the long marches
                            by day and by night, through rain and sunshine, heat
                            and cold.Often the frozen ground the only bed of repose to the
                            weary body, and with naught for a covering but the
                            bleack heaven above. With these associations
                            crowding upon his memory it was with feelings of
                            deep sadness he said farewell.In departing he left with the army his blessings and
                            the prayers of a grateful friend.The army was loathe to give him up.The only censure that prevaded the camp, and that
                            gave shape to expression was in not pressing foward
                            and reaping a full hearvest
                            of victory after his battles, which were his save
                            the last one, Missionary ridge.First Dec Maj CW Heiskell received
                            his promotion to Lieut Col of Regiment, & Capt
                            J.G. Deadrick of Co "B" was made major of
                            regiment.To Tennesseeans, the future horizon of the young
                            Confederacy began to look dark and hazy. We had now
                            been battling for two and a half years, and had been
                            driven back and back by our foes, until our homes
                            were now in their hands, and at their mercy. When
                            Gen Brag left, his mantle fell, for a short time on
                            the shoulders of Lieut Gen Hardee; who in taking
                            command sought the confidence of his men as their
                            leader, and endeavered to inspire enthusiasm, and to
                            dispel all clouds of doubt that had gathered above our horizon, and to
                            beget again in us a hope of ultimate success.Gen Hardee was in command only twenty five days but
                            they were fruitful and satisfactory.Gen Joseph E. JohnsonJohnston.1863 Dec 27thGen Joseph E. JohnsonJohnston took command of the army of Tennesse the 27th of December.
                            There were but two Army Corps, Hardee's and Hood's.
                            The latter now commanded by Gen Hindman. The
                            official strength of the Army was now about
                            45,000.Rev. R.W. Norton, a baptist minister was appointed
                            chaplain of our regement Dec 28th We had been with
                            out a Chaplain since the reorganization at Corinth,
                            when Rev D. Sullins left us.Again we had the privilege of building huts for
                            winter quarters. Which we built on the side of the
                            ridge west of Dalton.
                            Christmas has caught
                            up with us again, and came on in full sypmathy of
                            the times boisterous and stormy.Around Dalton1864 Jan 28thIt seemed there were more fighting and drinking in
                            camp than usual. Gambling was again on the rampage.
                            The "Devil" who is ever alert to his own interest,
                            seemed more busy than for some time.Billie Vestal, a little fellow of light weight and
                            Newton Williams, of large proportions of two hundred
                            pounds or more, seemed to lock horns more often of
                            late, and fought harder. But little Billie, like the
                            Goat, always came off first best.Gen JohnsonGeneral Joseph Eggleston
                                    Johnston now began granting furlough to all who
                            could go home and return by the first of April,
                            granting a certain number at a time; But very few of
                            the old 19th took advantage of this. Our regiment
                            was small, compared to what it was when we started
                            out. It had been reduced by deaths, wounds, capture,
                            and with sorrow be it said by some desertion, until it now numbers only two
                            hundred and eighty rank and file.A few however, had been transfured to other commands.The Army of Tennessee had never been engaged in
                            battle, (Save that of PerryvilleKYKentucky.) that some of the old 19th Tenn were not
                            left sleeping on the battle ground. And while Bragg
                            was in KYKentucky, our regiment was at Vicksburg Miss and BattonBaton Rouge La, where the soil of
                            both places was stained by her chivalric blood, and
                            where we left some of our brave ones to be guarded
                            and kept, until the morning of the resurrection.Dalton, Ga.An illustrated map of unit positions around
                                    Dalton,
                                Georgia.Major-General Patrick R. CleburneA portrait of Major-General Patrick R.
                                Cleburne, C.S.A.Stocks in Camp.1864 Feb 12thUpon our arrival at Dalton,
                            Gen Cheatham began maneuvering for his old brigads.
                            On our return from Sweetwater to Chattanooga, we had been taken from Gen
                            Cheatham and put in Gen Sewart's division.So Feb the 12th our brigade left Stewarts division
                            and our encampment on the ridge west of the city,
                            and moved to the east side of Dalton two miles, on the Spring Place
                            road, to Cheatham's division and Hardee's Corps.Hardee's Corps.DivisionsCheatham'sCleburnCleburne'sWalker'sBate'sBrigadesStrahl'sManey'sWright'sVaughn'sStrahl's Brigade4th & 5th TennCol J.J. Lamb24th TennLieut Col. S.E. Shannon19th "" F.M. Walker31st & 33d "" " F.E. StaffordAs we approached our new quarters, we passed
                            Jackson's brigade, by whom we pitched our tents.The first thing that attracted our attention was
                            stocks in Jackson brigade and in which was imprisoned a man. Our
                            brigade was furiously indignant at the idea of a man
                            being punished in any such manner. So after dark on
                            the first night of our arrival, it being clear and
                            frosty the moon shining brightly, some fifty or an
                            hundred of our brigade made an invasion on Jackson's
                            stocks.Dalton1864 Feb 15thWhile the writer took no part in it, curiosity
                            carried him along to see the fun. Jackson's men did
                            not like the Stocks any more than did we, yet they
                            did not like this invasion of their premises and
                            they rose to a man in defence of the eye sore of
                            their brigade. Quickly the men were in line by
                            companies and moved to the scene of the excitement.
                            The alarm being given we scattered. The writer
                            dodged under the shadow of one of the cabins, just
                            as a company filed by him and made his escape. They
                            captured three or four of our men and kept them in
                            the guard house all night. The next morning our men
                            demanded the release of the prisoners, which was
                            refused.Before the officers of our regiment were aware of the
                            trouble our men were falling into line with their
                            guns to attack the guard house, and to shoot if
                            necessary.Jackson's men gave up the prisoners and every thing
                            became as quiet as if nothing had happened.One month from this time, the stocks were seen
                            staring our own men in the face, and in them our men
                            were placed, without much kicking.How readly we adapt ourselves through habit to
                            surrounding circumstances, no matter how obnoxious
                            they may have been to us at first! Feb the 20th Cheatham's
                            division was ordered to the assistance of Gen Polk
                            who was at or near DemopolisAlaAlabama.Leaving camp early in the morning, we boarded the
                            cars at Dalton for Atlanta where we arrived
                            late in the evening of the same day.Cheatham & the boys.1864 Feb 21stNext morning Gen Cheatham and about one third of our
                            brigade took on a "Hight tight," and we had a lively
                            time in the streets of Atlanta that day. The men ran after
                            Cheatham calling him "Mars Frank" and begging him to
                            make them a speach. The
                            General would say "Ah! Go away my boys," but the
                            boys kept after him. As the Gen would reach the
                            corner of a block, he would be headed off by an
                            other squad, as anxious to hear him make a speach as the men in pursuit.
                            All he could say was "Come along, You are all my boys."If there ever was a Gen and his men of whom it could
                            be said the men belonged to the General, and the
                            General belonged to the men, it was Gen Cheatham and
                            his division. Leaving Atlanta the next morning we moved out
                            for West point which we reached at four oclock
                            Sunday morning. We remained here all day, and having
                            an opportunity to atten
                            church we took it in, both in the morning and at
                            night.Leaving here Monday morning we went to Montgomery
                            where we went abord the steamer
                            "Reindeer" for Selma. Here we again took the cars
                            for Demopolis where we met
                            Gen Polk, and where we remained for three or four
                            days. Just what was the object of our trip, remained
                            in the bosom of our commanders. We saw nothing nor
                            did we hear anything to call us to this point. Gen
                            Polk told us he wanted Cheatham's division with him
                            again and wished we could stay. But this was not our
                            place on the war's great chess board.Big Snow balling.1864 Mar 22dWe returned to Dalton by
                            the same route we had gone, back to our camp again.
                            On our return we found our rude plank shanties
                            partly torn down. Of course we laid it at the door of Jackson's brigade. Without any
                            feelings of bitterness or ill will we repaird our shanties, and felt
                            glad we were at home again. During the night of
                            March 21st snow fell to the depth of four or five
                            inches.Battle of the Balls.The next day the old 19th and the regiment of Jackson
                            brigade that lay close along the side of our
                            regiment began snow balling, at first not more than
                            a dozen of each regiment. Then one by one joined,
                            then they fell in by the score and soon each brigade
                            was in line, one against the other.Then falling in by regiments and brigades, Cheathams
                            division and Walker's division were out.Company officers, Colonels and Generals, all joined
                            in the great snow ball. There were not less than
                            fifteen thousand on the two sides engaged.Regular military maneuvers were observed, first one
                            side then the other would charge. The line of battle
                            was nearly a mile long. It was a friendly and
                            exciting contest, lasting until noon. There were a
                            few hurt. In the excitement and hurry, a rock
                            unintentionally would be gathered up and thrown with
                            the snow.The snow balling lasted about three and a half or
                            four hours.Sham Battles1864 April 1stSham battlesAbout April 1st Johnson fought to or three sham
                            battles below Dalton. He
                            had one or two divisions on each side and in which
                            the Artillery played a conspicuous part. When the
                            first one was fought our division knew nothing about
                            it. Our men were lounging around in camp, some
                            asleep.When the firing opened by brigades, and the cannons opened you never saw men move more quickly in
                            getting their guns and accoutrements, and ready to
                            fall into line at the first command. We thought the
                            enemy had surprised some portion of Army, as the
                            sound of battle came from the direction of the
                            front. A few days later Cheatham's CleburnCleburne's and Bate's divisions, with their
                            respective artillery formed on the hill sides &
                            valley below the city and fought their sham battle.
                            There were Ladies from Dalton, Atlanta and other points present to
                            witness the battle. They were just around on the
                            hills out of danger. There were two opposing forces
                            formed, and each maneuvered for position.Skirmish lines engaged first, then the main attacks.
                            Artillery duels were quite lively.After these were over, the respective chaplains began
                            a forward movement in their work. A revival spirit
                            took hold of the men as well their ministers, and
                            each brigade had its "Bush Arbor." Many were being
                            saved, conversions every night. Each brigade had its
                            own Arbor, and as the brigades were close together,
                            each night could be heard singing and shouting from
                            four brigade Arbors at the same time.Ten were killed.1864 April 29thOur chaplain and old Father McCutchins cahaplain of a Middle Tenn
                            regiment, conducted the meeting in our brigade.
                            Father McCutchin was a Cumberland minister. Blessed
                            old man, he is in Heaven today, for he was then an
                            old man.Maneys brigade was about half a mile from ours. In
                            clearing off the ground for their Arbor, they had
                            left standign close by the arber a tall hickory tree
                            with scarcely a limb on it and to all appearances
                            perfectly sound. They had swept some trash up
                            against the this tree and had partly burned it, but
                            no one had thought the tree had burned any at all.
                            The meeting had been going on for some time and much
                            interest was manifested.On the night of April the 29th there were hundreds
                            under the Arbor, and about forty penitents.At one bench were eight penitents and two were
                            talking to them, all were kneeling, when with no
                            more warning than a sharp crack, or snap of the
                            tree, it came crashing through the Arbor and fell
                            along side of this bench Killing the ten at
                            once.This came like an explosion in the deep world of
                            thought with the soldier whose hearts of adamant had
                            not been moved for years. They began to show every
                            sign of unrest, and began to look out beyond the
                            sunset of this life, and to think of the life
                            beyond.The Funeral.1864 April 30thThe Funeral.It was a sad scene the next day, as the long column
                            of soldiers moved in solum procession headed by the
                            band playing a muffled funeral march, closely
                            followed by ten Ambulances each one bearing its
                            dead, to where ten open graves were waiting their
                            reception.These men, who had just burried their dead comrades
                            had in days gone by burried upon the battle field,
                            hundreds of their fellow men, piling them in ditches
                            one upon an other with seeming indifference. But
                            here their stout hearts were bowed in deep sorrow,
                            as they laid away beneath the cold sands of the
                            grave, these their comrades and bid them adieu until
                            the morning of the resurrection.The next day the old 19th laid away one of Co "G" who
                            died with congestive chills. The following died
                            while we were here at Dalton. Died.Jackson LeeCo"I"Wright CalvinCo"D"Rush Wm""Wood Talbert""G"Rose C.F.""Hord J.J.""K"Sampson S.I.""Tally C.F.""Roller William""G"Chapter XVI.Taking it all in all, we had a nice time while we
                            were around Dalton. April the 29th the
                            enemy made a feint
                            movement on the front, & began to stretch him
                            self, and wake up from his long winter nap and throw
                            out his arms feeling for "Johnnie Rebs."He seemed intent on pushing Johnson from his present
                            quarters. But he found our General wide awake. Like
                            Davy Crocket, Johnson slept with one eye open and
                            was never caught napping.Gen Hood who lost a leg in the Chickamauga battle,
                            had returned and had taken charge of his command.
                            While we were here sergt John Richards and George
                            Cheek went over to Spring Place a small village
                            twelve miles east of Dalton and conscripted on William Garner
                            and brought him to the regiment. They did this with
                            expectation of getting a furlough, but as the enemy
                            began pressing our front Johnson countermanded the
                            order giving furloughs, so Garner joined their Co
                            "H" and remained with them. May the 8th our (Strahl's) brigade was
                            ordered in double quick time to "Dug Gap" some four
                            or five miles below Dalton, where Hooker was trying to force his
                            way through, but was resisted by KYKentucky and Ark Cavalry. We reached the Gap after
                            an exceedingly hard march, having double quicked
                            nearly all the way to the foot of the ridge, and
                            then we climbed along the steep road when we reached
                            the top nearly exhausted. On our way up the ridge we
                            passed several calvalrymen wounded at a Spring.Hookers command was in plain view and near the Gap on
                            the other side. After dark their camp firese filled
                            all the valley beyond. We formed our line along on
                            top of the ridge. For some time after we had formed
                            our line, the enemy's Artillery sent shot after shot
                            scalping the crest of the ridge. Soon after dark the
                            skirmishing ceased and all around us became quiet
                            and our ears were again greeted with some sweet
                            musick from the Federal bands, which made us wish"This cruel war was over."Rocky face1864 May 9thWe lay all night on the rough rocks, quite a
                            different bed to what we had for some time. The next
                            morning Cleburne's division relieved us, and we
                            moved to the right, on the line above Dalton and occupied a
                            position onRocky faceoverlooking the Gap
                            through which the public road and Mill Creek
                            ran.Our regiment occupied the summit of Rocky face. We
                            threw up or piled up rocks for the protection of our
                            heads behind which we had to lie down in order to
                            get even that protection. The enemy's bullets were
                            coming pretty thick and fast, and now and then they
                            would find their way through the rock wall and wound
                            our boys, and generally in the head and face. Their
                            skirmish line was at the foot of the ridge. Just at
                            the foot, and in front of our regiment on the
                            enemy's line was an opening in the bushes, as if it
                            had been cleared, some fifteen or twenty feet wide,
                            the bushes on each side very thick. We were lying
                            down looking through an opening in the rock wall,
                            when one of the enemy's pickets started across this
                            opening. All along by the writer the boys were on the look out, no sooner did the Federal
                            picket show himself in the clearing than a Rebel
                            bullet went through his body. We were watching him.
                            Soon as he fell two others came out to pick him up
                            and in doing so they too fell and lay by his
                            side.Others started to them but quickly returned.Johnson on Rocky face.1864 May 9thThe leaves of the trees just over our heads were cut
                            and were falling thick all around.Gen J.E. JohnsonJohnstoncame up to us on Rocky face, and would stand
                            up, and try to see over the ridge, The enemy's
                            bullets cut the leaves right around his head and
                            over him. We were lying down afraid to stand up. One
                            of the boys ventured to warn the General of the
                            danger he was in, but he only smiled, and remained a
                            few minuts longer, and went
                            on up the line, alone and afoot. We remained here
                            until late in the evening, when we were ordered to
                            our extreme right, an placed on a high knowlknoll standing out in the valley, not far from
                            Varnel's station. We were up some four or five
                            hundred feet above the valley. In our front about
                            one mile, and in plain view, the Federals moved
                            across the valley column after column towards our
                            right. They had a heavy skirmish line directly under
                            us, and Wheeler's cavalry were skirmishing with
                            them. We had thrown up breast works around on this knowlknoll. One of the regiment with Capt Deadrick
                            and W.J. Worsham were standing by the ditches
                            watching the two skirmish lines charge each
                            other.Standing down in the ditch the writer could not see
                            very well, and he had to get up on the embankment to
                            see while the Maj. and the Captain stood in the
                            ditch.Sharp shooter1864 May 10thWe had been watching but a few minuts when zip came a
                            ball passing between us, from the gun of a
                            Sharp shooter lying behind a stump out in
                            the field about two hundred & fifty yards off.
                            He had taken deliberate aim at us. We agreed to
                            watch the sharp shooter, time about.The two not watching him watched the skirmish. If we saw the gun fired, we
                            could sit down out of danger, before the ball
                            reached us. But on the skirmish line, we all looked
                            and while we did the sharp shooter fired, the ball
                            brushing the writer's coat just under his chin, and went through
                            the Captain's hat. A short distance this side of
                            where the Federal column crossed the valley, stood a
                            beautiful residence, surrounded by orchard and shade
                            Trees, with out buildings, barns, stables etc. Just
                            before night the Federals burned all the
                            buildings.Resaca1864 May 11thWe left the extreme right late in the evening of the
                            11th and moved back to or near Dug Gap - where we
                            remained all night. Sherman was moving down the Valley on
                            the opposite side of the ridge towards Resaca. Gen L. Polk had
                            reached Resaca from
                            Demopolis early in the morning of the 12th and had
                            taken position below the town. Hood left Daltonearley in the morning of the
                            12th We (Cheatham's division) left about midnight,
                            and reached Resaca about
                            Sun up the morning of 3d Hood's pickets were
                            engaging those of the enemy then about one mile out
                            in the direction of Snake Creek Gap, through which
                            the enemy had passed in force, about twenty three
                            thousand, under McPheron, and were pressing with
                            vigor for Resaca and the
                            RR Bridge across the Oostonaula.Sherman was following JohnsonJohnston on the east side of the ridge. On reaching
                                Resaca about sun up,
                            our regiment with the brigade formed line, in front
                            of the town along and near the rail road.Polk formed on the left and below the town with his
                            left resting on the river. Hardee was in the center,
                            in front of the town, while Hood's line extended to
                            the right and almost to the Connasauga river above
                            and north of Resaca.Polk skirmished heavily all day of the
                            13th on our left, and so did part of Hardee's Corps
                            in the center. The two Armies took up the principal
                            part of the day in maneuvering for position each
                                one expecting
                            the fight to be heavy when it opened.RESACAMap of troop positions in Resaca and surrounding
                                area.THE BATLLE OF RESACA, GEORGIA.Illustration of the Battle of Resaca,
                                Georgia.1864 May 14thOur boys were on tip toe in their frenzy of
                            excitement and like the old war horse, could hardly
                            be restrained with bit and bridal. The enemy all evening kept
                            inching along closer and closer to our lines, while
                            our officers kept down the inclination on the part
                            of our men to drive them back. That night the two
                            Armies lay in line of battle close to each other and
                            ready for the fray the next morning.Heavy skirmishing commenced next morning on our left
                            with Polk against McPherson. Soon the whole line was
                            engaged. Hardee against Hooker and Polk against Cox.
                            Our brigad engaged Baird and
                            Jefferson C. Davis in the desperate charge the enemy
                            made against Cheatham. The fighting between Hardee
                            and Hooker was heavy indeed, the musketry and cannon
                            played almost incessantly for two hours. Our ears
                            were greeted with boom bang, zip, zip so long that
                            after it had subsided still the roar of battle
                            continued in our ears.Hood on our right drove the Federal lines around,
                            doubling them up column on column, until the enemy
                            reinforced and checked Hood's advance. Hundreds of
                            cannons in the two armies were playing upon each
                            other from one end of the battle lines to the other,
                            till the woods and fields were thick withe deadly missils of shot and shell. The battle
                            continued until dark put and end to the strife. The
                            two armies again lay in line as the night found
                            them. There was little change of position on either
                            side during the night.1864 May 15thThe center of the two armies the morning of the 15th
                            seemed to be the attraction of the war God's fury.
                            Hooker made a most savage charge on Cheatham, coming
                            in solid phalanx by brigade, one after an other, but
                            they were driven back like a wave following wave,
                            until they reached the point of starting. The loss
                            of the enemy was plainly visible, the field lay
                            strewn with their dead and wounded.The colors of the Old 19th were on the front line,
                            amid this storm of shot and shell, guarded and kept
                            by as faithful and brave a regiment as was ever on the field of carnage.Sherman had constructed a
                            pontoon across the river at Lay's ferry four or five
                            miles below the city, and began crossing by the
                            middle of the evening of the 15th. This move of
                                Sherman caused JohnsonJohnston to with draw from Resaca, which he did at midnight.Hood crossed the Oostanaula on a pontoon above the
                            town, Hardee on the Rail Road bridge and Polk on the
                            County bridge a short distance below. The old 19th
                            as usual here added to her killed and wounded.William R. Rhea lost a leg - (see
                                page 183)A few more of our regiment fired their last gun, and not only ended their struggle for house and
                            country, but ended
                            the battle of life as well.It had become a matter of fact that Strahl's brigade,
                            of which the Old 19th was a component part, was
                            always ready and on hand in any emergency.Under shot & shell1864 May 15thUnder shot and shell.During the first days fight around Resaca we were standing by the road
                            side, and just below us some two hundred yards,
                            stood a cabin by the road side, in which were two
                            women and three children. There was only skirmishing
                            going on. The enemy in our front some quarter or
                            half mile, opened a battery with this cabin in its
                            range. The first shot passed over the cabin and
                            exploded in the distance. The second shot burst in
                            the yard, when out came the women and children
                            screaming at the top of their voices. The shells
                            began to come faster and as each shot passed or
                            exploded near by the women and children threw up
                            their hands and fell on their faces and hollooed as loud as they could "O Lordy," "O Lordy,"
                            They came running towards us, but before reaching us
                            the battery ceased and they returned.KilledWoundedWright JMCo"D"Rhea Wm R.Co"G"Moody Tobe""G"Chapter XVII.The battle of Resaca was
                            the first engagement more than heavy
                                    skirmishing the Army of Tennessee had been in under Gen JohnsonJohnston. The Federals had a much larger force than
                            we. Sherman had so many more men than JohnsonJohnston, he could send a large flanking force
                            around him, and yet confront him. With as many men
                            as JohnsonJohnston had. Yet JohnsonJohnston maneuvered his men well, for he met Sherman in every move.We fell back to Calhoun where we rested one day and
                            one night & then moved on. We reached Adairsvillethe morning of the
                            17th where we formed line of battle. Schofield being
                            the van guard of the enemy came up in front of
                            Cheatham and they began skirmishing. Although no
                            regular engagement seemed to be desired by either JohnsonJohnston or Sherman, yet
                            each one kept strengthenin his skirmish line, until
                            it reached the dignity of a battle, and continued
                            long after dark. Here one of our batteries came near
                            getting Gen Sherman. He
                            rode up to their front line not far from one of our
                            batteries, and at a point in plain view of it. A
                            shot from one of the guns aimed at the groop burst in a few feet of
                            the General. He turned and moved off, and had gone
                            but a few feet, when a second shot burst just where
                            he had been standing. In this skirmish a few of the
                            old 19th gave up their lives in a sacrifice to the
                            "God of War."KilledWoundedSherman JohnCo"B"Baily JohnCo"G"Oliver Bill""G"Barnard Wm""K"Orick M""K"William M""Wm Bowers""G"Cass Station.1864 May 18thSherman began to flank JohnsonJohnston again which caused JohnsonJohnston to fall back toCass Stationabout
                            seven miles below, when he again formed line of
                            battle with full purpose of giving Sherman a fight. Here he
                            had an open field in front of him over which the
                            enemy must go if he attacked.We having the advantage of position, Sherman did not advance,
                            but moved to our left in a southwestern direction,
                            and away from the railroad.JohnsonJohnston again, abandoned his lines, and resumed
                            the march down the railroad as for Cartersville,
                            while at Stile's ferry six miles below Sherman was then crossing,
                            who moved as rapidly as he could along up Raccoon
                            Creek. JohnsonJohnston pushed forward his men, to keep pace with
                            the enemy. Cheatham's division of Hardee's corps did
                            not halt until they reached a point beyond Dallas
                            late in the evening of the 24th. Polk halted at
                            Dallas, while Hood came in on the Allatoona road and
                            bivouaced near New Hope Church. Hardee had gone
                            seven miles beyond Dallas but was recalled that
                            night in a drenching rain back to Dallas. JohnsonJohnston here formed what was known as theNew
                            Hopeline.New Hope line.1864 May 26thSherman thought JohnsonJohnston was still in the viscinity of Allatoona,
                            and on reaching New Hope Church and Dallas farther
                            on, he thought he was beyond and in JohnsonJohnston's rear. But on reaching these points, he
                            found him selfe in the very teeth of JohnsonJohnston, with his eyes wide open staring him in
                            the face. In the evening of the 25th Sherman attacked our line.
                            We had thrown up a few logs for protection and so he
                            was unsuccessful in driving us from our
                                position.Here Elija Hale was
                                wounded arm cut off. The fight was
                            exceedingly heavy and amidst the heaviest cannonade
                            and musketry came a heavy thunder storm with rain,
                            wind and lightning.Andy Hutson
                                was wounded & Daniel Barn Co "B" in
                                leg. The mingling of the two waring
                            elements, the battle of men and the artillery of the
                            Clouds rendered it beyond discription. The fight
                            lasted two hours. The attack was renewed the morning
                            of the 26th and extended along the line from New
                            Hope Church to Dallas. There was but little sleeping
                            done. Now each army was vigilant and on the lookout
                            to surprise and attack some weak point in the
                            other's line.186A On this line Billie Vestto
                            came very near loosing his life. The regiment was
                            resting. Billie was sitting down, Taylor farhon
                            facing the enemy. A shell came & burst in his
                            lap= A small piece of shell cut his face scarcely
                            bring blood, but he was powder burnt from his knees
                            to his face. What a wonderful escap! The writer picked a good deal of
                            powder from his body.1864 May 27thCHARACTER OF THE BATTLE-FIELD OF NEW HOPE
                                CHURCH.Illustration of the Battlefield of New Hope
                                Church.THE RIFLE-PITS BEFORE KENNESAW, JUNE
                                1864.Illustration of the rifle-pits.Map of Army Operations Atlanta Campaign
                                between Kingston and Atlanta.Map of Army Operations Atlanta Campaign
                                between Kingston and Atlanta.Not an hour day nor night, but the sound of musketry
                            and cannon could be heard. Changing positions and
                            fighting as we moved was the order of the day, and
                            was not the exception at night. Hardee's line was
                            between New Hope and Dallas, on which line was
                            Cheatham's division. Late in the evening of the 26th
                            Hardee's Corps was divided and Cleburne's division
                            was moved to the right of Hood toPickett's
                            Millswhere on the 27th he was attacked by
                            Howard.Picketts Mills1864 May 27thCleburne had good breast works with head logs behind
                            which he lay quietly awaiting.As the enemy advanced, Cleburne held his fire, and
                            but for the Confederate flags floating above the
                            head logs, there was nothing to show that the
                            Confederate ditches were not deserted.The enemy advanced slowly and with a firm step,
                            expecting the Confederate guns to open on them every
                            moment. Yet when they were within a few yards of
                            Cleburne's ditches every thing seemed as still as
                            death.No one, none but God ever knew the fearful emotions
                            of their souls and with what trepidation of heart
                            they now advanced. They could not but have known and
                            doubless felt that there was a Confederate gun,
                            which was the fact, pointing with deadly aim at each
                            and every morn. Yet on they came. Was this bravery?
                            There "Spartans" were laid in the shade! Now they
                            are only a few feet from the ditches in, there rings
                            out on the stillness of the air the command of
                            Cleburne, "Now men fire." Like a flash of blinding
                            ligtning with a tremendous peal of deafening thunder
                            there went up from under the head logs of CleburnCleburne's works a volley that did its work well.
                            Who could have stood? No Spartan of old, could have
                            remained under this red hot rain of lead. But few of
                            Howard's men who composed that front line returned.
                            That one volly laid upon the ground dead and wounded
                            more than one thousand brave men.New Hope line1864 May 30thOn the 28th Cleburne moved back to Cheatham's right,
                            and that evening Col Lamb of the 5th Tenn of our
                            brigade was killed. There had been one continous
                            fight day and night and hard ship, would not convey
                            a correct idea of what we had to under go here on this line. At
                            midnight the enemy charged the positions of Cheatham
                            and Cleburne, and soon after charged that of Bate.
                            The fighting continued until day light, amidst a
                            continued fall of rain. We had to remain in the
                            ditches, when some times there were two inches of
                            mud and water.Here we slept when we could. On June the 2d Bate,
                            Cleburne and Walker, were moved to the right,
                            leaving Cheatham to hold the extreme left alone. On
                            the 4th Cheatham moved to the right with the other
                            three divisions, which placed Hardee on the right,
                            Hood in the center and Polk on the left. There was a
                            continous moving of troops all the time under a
                            skirmish fire.Sherman kept inching
                            along towards the rail road, and JohnsonJohnston kept pace with him. On the 8th JohnsonJohnston fell back from the New Hope line, and
                            formed a new one, the left of which rested on Lost
                            Mountain, and running to and over Pine Mountain,
                            that stood out in a salient, and continued on over
                            the top of Kennesaw Mountain. This new line again
                            placed Hardee in the center, and Cheatham's division
                            along over Pine mountain. Along on this line, as was
                            on the new hope line, the fighting was incessant day
                            and night.Death of Gen Polk.1864 June 14Death of Gen Polk.On the morning of June 14th Generals JohnsonJohnston, Polk, Hardee, Cheatham, Hood and others,
                            were riding down the line, inspecting that of the
                            enemy's as well as our own. On reaching Pine
                            Mountain at a point of nice observation held by our
                            (Strahl's) brigade, they all rode up on an eminence
                            where they had a good view of the enemy's lines.
                            Here in our front the enemy had a battery of steel
                            guns, not more than four hundred yards from our front. As soon as the Generals reached the summit of
                            the hill, they were observed by the enemy, and were
                            fired on from this steel battery, and they all fell
                            back. Gen Polk not being satisfied with the view he
                            had, rode back to the same point and stood but a
                            moment, yet one moment too long.A second shot, well aimed from the same battery sent
                            a four pound shot through his body, killing him
                            instantly.In this sad calamity we sustained a loss not to be
                            easily filled. Gen Polk was a brave officer a good
                            man, a christian soldier.Transfer of the 19th to
                            Maney.1864 June 24The next day June 15th our regimentThe 19th Tenn was transferred to Maney'sbrigade with Col
                            F.M. Walker in command, and the 41 Tenn was taken from Maney's brigade in but in
                            Strahl's.As Pine Mountain made a considerable elbow in JohnsonJohnstons line, he on the 16th abandoned this point
                            and this straightened his line, and shortened
                            it.On the 17th JohnsonJohnston swung the left of his line back towards
                            the rail road, and across a small stream called Mud
                            Creek where works had been proposed for us.The point where Cheatham's and Lorning's divisions
                            joined was found to be too weak and JohnsonJohnston swung still faster around with his left,
                            crossing Noses Creek, but still hanging on Old
                            Kennesaw. Cheatham's division occupied on this new
                            line an elevation from which the enemy longed to
                            dislodge him. On the 24th they made an attack on
                            this part of the line which lasted for some time and
                            which was an utter failure on their part. In all
                            these engagements of Cheatham the Old 19th was there
                            with her battle flag all torn and tattered, but she
                            left the sail more sacred by being stained with the
                            blood of her noble men. JohnsonJohnston still held Kennesaw Mountain, and on this
                            line which was nearly parallel with the
                            W&AR.Road was some of the hardest fighting of
                            the war.Kennesaw1864 June 27thOld Kennesaw.What a view from the summit of this grand old
                            mountain. Standing out in bold outline a little
                            north of west from Marietta is Pine Mountain dressed in its dark fringed
                            foliage through which the passing winds mournfully
                            sing a sad requiem to the memory of Gen Leonodas
                            Polk who gave up his life on its summit on June
                            14th. Farther on and southward was lost mountain
                            standing as a lone sentinel to guard the bloody
                            fields and the dead of Dallas, New Hope and Picketts
                            Mills. From the western base of Kennesaw ran JohnsonJohnstons line in a Southern direction, for perhaps
                            Seven miles, and parallel to his, ran the line of
                            ther ever vigilant enemy, watching a chance to break JohnsonJohnston's line and drive him from the field. For
                            days on this line the blue smoke out lined our
                            position. At night it was lit up with the red glow
                            of artillery and small arms.Earley in the mornign of the
                            27th there was a noticeable restlessness and an
                            unusual moving of the enemy's troops.Sherman began an advance
                            all along in front of JohnsonJohnston's lines. Soon the cry ran out along the
                            line they come, the come. From right to left and
                            left to right, the music of battle rang and our men
                            sent volley after volley into the ranks of the
                            advancing foe.Oh! My! the cannon, bellowing like so many mad bulls,
                            sent shot and shell plowing the ground scattering
                            rocks, dirt, and every thing movable, cutting down
                            trees (see page 186
                                1/2) and felling limbs as if the air and
                            tree tops were full of invisible sappers and miners.
                            At times from the roar and smoke of battle, we
                            fought neither by sound nor sight. The air was so
                            full of sulphurous smoke of battle we could not see,
                            and the roar of musketry was so continuous we could
                            not distinguish the report of our guns from our
                            neighbor's and often could only tell by the rebound
                            of the gun whether it had gone off or not. Maney's
                            brigade of Cheatham's division in which now the old
                            19th was then, held a position known asDead
                            Angle.Dead Angle1864 June 27thHere Thomas charged our lines, coming with a frenzied
                            bravery column after column, while our cannon and
                            musketry playing upon them cut them down like grass
                            before the sickle. They kept filling up and coming
                            on until they were within a few steps of our lines,
                            then halted, turned and fled back to their ditches, but to rally and come
                            again. Oh! What a slaughter was here.Braver men never fought than those Thomas had but
                            their bravery only led them to their death.Many of their men reached our ditches, only to find a
                            last resting place. S.D. Moore
                                Co "B" wounded here.Here a brave boy, a Federal color bearer, crazed with
                            the wild excitement of the hour, actually planted
                            his colors on our works, when it was immediately
                            seized by a captain of a Tennessee regiment and a
                            struggle ensued. The color bearer drew his pistol
                            and shot the captain dead. While the smoking pistol
                            was yet in his hand, he was riddled with bullets
                            from a dozen confederate guns.Kennesaw1864 June 27thIllustration of the death of a Union Color
                                bearer.It was "Steel against Steel" and "Diamond cut
                            diamond" here with Cheatham.Each one could but admire the bravery of the
                            other.Not only with Cheatham, but CleburnCleburne, Walker, and Bate, and from one end of JohnsonJohnston's line to the other there was one blaze of
                            fire and roar of battle.Around old Kennesaw's base so rapid was the
                            bombardment from Sherman's one hundred and fifty guns, and
                            from those of our side, that it seemed ablaze with
                            fire. The deadly missils from
                            the two contending Armies litterly filled the air, until the old
                            Mountain seemed to be a grand Volcano. Language
                            fails to picture this field of butchery with its
                            dead & wounded.The Federals came with a huzzas only to be hurled
                            back with the wild "Rebel Yell."Gen French who sat on top of Kennesaw Mountain and
                            beheld the entire scene below him says, "We sat
                            there perhaps an hour or more enjoying a bird's eye
                            view of one of the most magnifficent sights ever alloted to man;
                            to look down upon a hundred and fifty thousand men
                            arrayed in the strife of battle on the plain
                            below.1864 June 27thAs the infantry closed in, the blue smoke of the
                            musketry marked out our lines for miles, while over
                            it rose in cumuli like clouds the white smoke of the
                            artillery.Through the rift of smoke as it was wafted aside by
                            the winds we could see the assault made on Cheatham
                            and the struggle was hard and there it lasted
                            longest. So many guns were trained on those by our
                            side, and so incessant was the roar of cannon and
                            the sharp explosion of the shells that naught else
                            could be heard."All along the line the fighting was desperate beyond
                            description. To the credit of the enemy no braver
                            army bore the standard of stars and stripes than
                            that Sherman sent to
                            wrest Old Kennesaw from JohnsonJohnston's grasp on this memorable 27th June.And to the credit of the Confederate army under
                            Johonson, and deserving greater praise because they
                            were much fewer in number, yet met the storm and
                            stood as firm as the base of old Kennesaw around
                            which they fought.There was not a single point where JohnsonJohnston's line wavered for a moment. They fought
                            not with haphazard aim, but with deliberation and
                            judgment. In Walker's division, was clearly shown
                            the heroism of the Southern soldier.1864 June 27thA schrapnel shot came through the head logs an fell
                            in the ditch among the men, which for the instant
                            caused a stampeed, but while the fuze was still
                            burning a Georgia sergeant leaped forward seized the
                            deadly projectile and threw it out of the ditch
                            where it exploded without doing harm.Many of the enemy's dead lay on the ground until the
                            third day after the battle exposed to the hot rays
                            of the sun, no one on either side dare venture over
                            the head logs. A truce covering Cheatham's division
                            was agreed upon to bury the dead, to last one hour.
                            During that hour the ground between the two lines
                            was thronged with the "Blue & Gray" who met as
                            friend meets friend. To them the hour expired
                            seemingly in a moment. At one point on this line,
                            occupied partly by the Old 19th Tenn the two Armies
                            were close together we had to cut traverse ditches
                            through which we could get to the rear, and into the
                            main line with provisions.It was dangerous to get up on top of the ground after
                            dark and certain death to do so in day time.A hat raised just enough to be scene above the head logs would
                            immediately be filled with bullet holes. For forty
                            days the fighting had been one continuous battle.
                            The country all around was cut up with entrenchments
                            and honey combed with rifle pits and the woods
                            looked almost as dreary and as desolate as if it had
                            been swept by repeated tornadoes. After all, the
                            glory and excitement of battle the scened is alwas
                            fringed with sorrow and sadness!!Two illustrations of the Battle
                                        of Kennesaw Mountain.1864 June 27thDuring these thirty days fighting around Dallas, New
                            Hope, and Kennesaw, the Old 19th Tennessee lost many
                            of her noble and brave men. Two of whom we make
                            mention of because we had more to do with them after
                            their death.John White of Co "E" was one. He was an educated and
                            polished young man, and related to the best families
                            of Knoxville. On this
                            Kennesaw line he was almost torne to pieces with a
                            shell. When they reached us with him which was in a
                            very few minits after he was
                            hit, we shall never forget the expression of anguish
                            and despair that rested upon his sad pale face. He
                            talked but little, but that little was an
                            exhortation to those around him, not to live as he
                            had. The last audible word he ever uttered were
                            "Boys dont live as I have, remember my fate" John
                            had been very wicked. He lived but an hour. He was
                            carried back out of range of shot, on the road where
                            were several dead, and where we alone lay with the
                            dead to guard them until morning.We took out of his bowels a piece of shell which had
                            imbeded its self weighing about two pounds.The other one was John Spears of Co "K" who was also
                            killed on this line. Spears one morning was going
                            after water for the men on the line. He had fifteen
                            or twenty canteens across his shoulder, and was
                            going down an incline to a branch.1864 June 27thWhen about half way a shell, just brushingthe head
                            logs on the line, was one of the kind the boys say
                            has a shuck tied to it, passed on over struck
                            Spears, tore about half the top of his head off.He had an Aunt living in Marietta. We were detailed
                            to carry him to his Aunt and see he was burried. We
                            found his Aunt about noon. It was a sad meeting. But
                            in the sorrow that so heavely pressed upon her
                            heart, she did not forget us, but urged that we go
                            home with her and take dinner.We could not refuse, and persuasion was not needed.
                            Nearly two long years had gone by since we had eaten
                            in a home or at a table. We were sorry for her, poor
                            sad, but kind hearted woman, for sitting down to the
                            table she could not eat. But we were to busily
                            engaged in just then to think of the deadThere were thousands of dead left on the blood
                            stained fields of theirs Kennesaw region to sleep
                            through the ages, whom the loud cannon's roar cannot
                            awake to glory again.Sherman not being able to
                            move JohnsonJohnston by direct attack began his flank movement
                            again. He sent McPherson and Schofield around our
                            left and thought to gain JohnsonJohnston's rear at Ruff's and Smyrna. But Sherman found JohnsonJohnston as ready to meet him as at any time past.
                            This move of Shermans
                            caused JohnsonJohnston not only to abandon Kennesaw and Marietta,
                            but all the Country he had struggled so hard to
                            hold. Sherman ought to
                            have captured JohnsonJohnston long ago, for he could send a large force
                            on around JohnsonJohnston's flank, and still have as many as he to
                            confront him. At Ruff's during the morning of the 3d
                            the enemy's pickets came up only a short distance,
                            not enough to tell whether an enemy was there or
                            not.At Smyrna1864 July 4thAt Smyrnathe next morning the enemy supposing
                            there was no one in their front were more bold.
                            Stanly came up, and pressed vigorously forward as if
                            no one was there to challenge. But a surprise
                            awaited him, He soon found his division in a perfect
                            hornet's nest. The sheet of lead that came from the
                            hidden lines of the Confederates in the edge of the
                            woods, and grape and canister from several
                            batteries, caused them to return in hot hast across
                            the field over which they had just come. They left a
                            few of their number lying on the field dead a
                            wounded, not taking time to look after them.JohnsonJohnston remained here some two or three days, then
                            he crossed the Chattahooche river, where he formed
                            his lines close along the river, where we remained
                            for several days.In the mean time Sherman
                            moved the greater part of his Army to our right, and
                            up the river where he too crossed at different
                            points. Schofield crossed, seven miles above the
                            railroad at Phillip's ferry at the mouth of Soap
                            Creek, McPherson crossed seven or eight miles still
                            further up, at Roswell's ferry.Removal of JohnsonJohnston1864 July 10thBefore Sherman crossed the
                            river, it was the dividing line between the Armies.
                            Our videtts and those of the enemy sat upon opposite
                            banks of the Chattahooche and chatted with each
                            other now and then, they videts would swim across to
                            each other's post, while some would keep a lookout
                            for the officers of each Army. Each one had been
                            fighting so long on the picket line they were glad
                            for a change and for a time when they could hold a
                            friedly chat, as they had done before. They exchanged pocket knives combs or anything
                            they had. As long as the river divided the videtts
                            so long did this friendly exchange keep up. After
                                Sherman crossed he
                            began moving around on our right towards Atlanta. JohnsonJohnston moved out from the river and formed his
                            lines on or near Peach tree Creek. This line
                            obstructed Sherman's
                            march to Atlanta.Sherman had intended
                            celebrating the 4th of July in Atlanta, but JohnsonJohnston objected. JohnsonJohnston had formed his lines for a firm stand on
                            Peach tree Creek for an other bold fight. Late in
                            the evening he was handing out instructions to the
                            various commanders for the next day's actions, when
                            he received the following telegram."Lieutenant Gen J.B. Hood has been commissioned
                                to the temporary rank of General under that
                                later laws of Congress. I am directed by the
                                secretary of war to inform you that as you have
                                failed to arrest the advance of the enemy to the
                                vicinity of Atlanta
                                and express no confidence that you can defeat or
                                repel him, you are here by relieved from the
                                command of the Army and Department of Tennessee,
                                which you will immediately turn over to Gen
                                Hood.""S. Cooper,Adj. & inspector
                                General."Across the Chattahooche1864 July 10thSo we see that "Richmond on the James" had already
                            decreed the end of JohnsonJohnston's command of the Army of Tennessee. There
                            is not one who could have done as well as JohnsonJohnston. This whas a death knell of the Army of
                            Tennessee. Was not the finger of God in this? We
                            will see. With bowed heads and sorrowful hearts the
                            Army of Tennessee yielded to the decree of Fate. We
                            were surprised and the news of the change came to
                            the men like a clap of thunder from a clear sky. We
                            are sorry we can not give the names of all our
                            regiment who were killed and wouned since we left
                            Adairsville.Miller F.L.Co"K"DallasWoundedHolt GW.""""Burrows Henry""""Gentry Joshua""D"New Hope"Vestle Billie"E." ""McRoberts J.""F"KennesawkilledStricklin Rube""G""WoundedRoller James"""killedSpears John""K"""Chase Walter"Gcaptured & was never heard of
                                    afterwards.1864 July 10thWhite JohnCo"E"KennesawkilledKincaid C.F.""""Pugh Joe""H"""Bradley Benj""D""woundedDiedBarnette F"""""Coutrall James"""""Hood L""F""""Brown John"""""Carnette Leander"""""Demurs A.D."""""McJenkins Sol"""""Swan S.G."""""Thomas C.W."""""Watts Wm"""""Chapter XVIII.Gen J.B. HoodGen. J.B. Hood was now in command of the Army of
                            Tennessee. With all due respect to Gen Hood, whom we
                            do not censure, we must say this was a stab to the
                            Confederacy, as well as to the Army of Tennessee,
                            through which wound ultimately poured the life blood
                            of both. Why JohnsonJohnston was removed no one, save Davis and his
                            cabinet knows.JohnsonJohnston's idea of warfare did not consist in
                            butchery or useless sacrifice. With his small army
                            he acted on the defensive, and only faught when he
                            was certain of doing the most good with the least
                            loss of life. No one else could have done more with
                            the means of command than did he.In looking now at the situation with the lights of
                            the past falling in on it, there seems no other
                            solution of the problem than that an unseen hand
                            directed this as well as all the other moves on the
                            great chess board of time. To us, JohnsonJohnston was removed without sufficient cause. He
                            held to our minds, the second place place in the
                            esteem of the soldier and the people. That a mistake
                            was made in making the change time will tell. Was
                            Hood to blame?Gen Hood was a bold intrepid fighter. He was all scaredscarred and crippled with wounds received in
                            battle, and these he has has carried these long
                            years and will until he dies, as mementoes of a
                            brave and fearless man. At Gettisburg he was so
                            wounded in the arm that ever after it hung paralyzed
                            and useless at his side. At the battle of
                            Chickamauga he lost a leg. Brave to greatness and
                            true to his Country's call, with one leg and one arm
                            he remained at the head of his command showing so
                            much pluck that the enemy styled him the "One armed
                            one legged fighting Devil." Earley in the morning of
                            the 18th Gen Hood rode to Gen JohnsonJohnston's quarters and remained with him all day
                            for the purpose of getting JohnsonJohnston's plans for the battle then hourly
                            expected.On Hood taking command of the Army, we lost our
                            Division Commander Gen Cheatham, who was put in
                            command of Hood's old Corps. Gen S.D. Lee took
                            Cheatham's division. Gen A.P. Stewart was given
                            Polk's old Corps.Hood's line of battle was Hardee's Corps on the
                            right, Stewart's in the center and Cheatham's on the
                            left. This formed the battle line of Peach Tree
                            Creek.Peachtree Creek.1864 July 17thThis battle ground was rough. Stewart's men were the
                            only ones engaged here and they had to cross a
                            ravine, but did not falter. The enemy was posted
                            behind earth works. The battle did not materialize
                            as was expected. McPherson and Gresham already on
                            our right, were far advanced towards Atlantawhich forced Hood to draw CleburnCleburne division from Hardee's Corps to meet
                                them.Andy G. Johnson of Co
                                "K" woundedBattle of July 22d1864 July 22.Hardee did not press the fight in front of him. Sherman continued to move
                            his army to our right, and around ours, so that Hood
                            was forced to fall back and occupy the ditches
                            around Atlanta.McPherson continued his line of march on around Atlanta, and crossed the
                            Atlanta and Augusta railroad with the 15th army
                            corps followed by Dodge 16th army corps and Blains the 17th army corps until they were South east of the city, where they were in
                            perfect security save only in their front. During
                            the night of the 21st Hardee's corps made a rapid
                            night march of some ten or twelve miles around and
                            South of Atlanta and
                            attacked McPherson early in the morning of July
                            22d.We reached and crossed the creek at Cobb's Mills in
                            the rear of Sherman. The
                            attack came from a direction least expected. Hardee
                            was behind them. The angry peals of Artillery and
                            roll of musketry that greeted the ears of Sherman and McPherson for
                            the they were standing together near Sherman's headquarters at
                            the Howard house, must have startled them from their
                            feeling of security. Sherman looking in the direction away
                            from the supposed Confederate Army exclaimed, "What
                            does that mean?" McPherson said, "I will go and
                            see." He did, but never returned. Our men were
                            pouring shot hot and heavy into the 15th & 16th
                            Army Corps of the Federal Army when McPherson left
                                ShermanGeneral John B. Hood, C.S.A.Portrait of General John B.
                                    Hood.THE BATTLE OF ATLANTA, JULY 22D.Illustration of fighting at the Battle
                                    of Atlanta.Map of Atlanta
                                    and vicinity.Map of Atlanta and vicinity.1864 July 22. and hastened with all possible speed with
                            only a portion of his staff to the scene of action.
                            Before he was a ware of danger, he ran upon a column
                            of Cheatham's division, headed by our brigade in
                            line of battle in a skit of woods right in his rear.
                            The brigade was Maney's and commanded by the Col of
                            the 19th Tenn in which was our regiment. McPherson
                            rode up close to us before he observed we were
                            Confederate, and perhaps not before he was halted
                            and surrender. But acting upon the first impulse of
                            the moment, he turned to escape, when a volly from
                                the our regiment
                            was fired Gen McPherson fell from his horse killed,
                            one or two of his staff wounded & captured, only
                            one made his escape. Cheatham's division pressed
                            forward to their works, and into the hottest of the
                            fight, breaking Logan's line & capturing two or
                            three pieces of Artill, and two hundred men. The
                            enemy's line of works at this place formed an obtuce
                            angle, the point of which our regiment approached.
                            here John Mason, our color displayed remarkable
                            courage, he ran forward several steps ahead of the
                            regiment & planted the colors on the enemy's
                            works. And in thes charge Col. F.M. Walker fell,
                            & where the brave & faithful soldier John
                            Templeton of Co A = also fell =. Templeton was
                            always at roll call when not sick or on duty. This
                            was a desperate charge. The enemy were driven back,
                            but soon made a charge on us, in which they
                            recaptured the guns we had taken. In this second
                            charge Capt Paul McDemot and John Richards of Co H
                            were mortally wounded, Tom Dintt, and John Long were
                            killed these too were of Co A. Silas Bookard was
                            wounded & died shortly afterward in this
                            fight.There had not been much harder fighting anywhere,
                            than was done in this battle.1864 July 22.Gen Hardee lost heavely, but the enemy certainly must
                            have been much more. The enemy's loss in killed,
                            wounded & captured was about four or five
                            thousand. Our brigade lost one hundred & fifty forty. The old
                            19th Tenn had her share of casualties as usual. Our
                            field hospital was back on the ridge near Cobb's
                            Mills - just a short distance in rear of the battle
                            field.When Hardee returned to the city, & to his
                            position around the works, a detail was made to
                            remain in the hospital with the wounded of whom were
                            more Federals than Confederates. From this field
                            hospital, looking across the Federal lines, we could
                            see the Spires & the smoke of the city, which
                            could not have been more than four miles was away. The writer
                            was one of the detail to remain in the field
                            hospital & of course would be captured as the
                            Federals were all around us. There were a few of our
                            regiment left, wounded so badly could not be taken
                            away. While we did not relish the idea of being a
                                prisner, duty to our boys
                            & obedience to orders, we stayed willingly.Capt Paul McDemott & Sergeant Richards died and
                            we helped bury them, one on the hill side, the other
                            near the creek, a hundred yards or more below the
                            mills. All of our regiment who were left here
                            died.Battle of Atlanta, July 22d.Illustration of fighting at the Battle of
                                Atlanta.Battle of Atlanta, July 22d.Illustration of fighting at the Battle of
                                Atlanta.General Joseph E. Johnston.Portrait of General Joseph E.
                                Johnston.Col Walker, Capt McDemott and Sergt Richards were
                            members of the Presbyterian Church. Col Walker was a
                            brave and noble man. To love him was but to know
                            him. We never saw him do anything unbecoming a
                            christian, nor did we ever hear him utter a word that could not have been
                            spoken in the presence of Ladies. We were with him
                            all the time, on the march and our tent pitched near
                            his in camp.Capt McDermott was a stern but not overbearing man.
                            He hated any one who shirked duty, and admired
                            bravery and fortitude where ever found. On every
                            battlefield were found those who stired our sympathies to the very
                            bottom, both of our friends and among our foes. Here
                            we found a Federal boy not more than sixteen years
                            old. He had both eyes shot out, and was wounded in
                            the body and one leg. He was brought back with our
                            wounded, and had been put out on the ground in the
                            shade, to await his turn for surgecal attention. In moving around we
                            ran upon this young man lying out in the hot sun. We
                            did what we could, placed him in the shade again
                            gave him water, and made him as comfortable as the
                            surrounding would admit. We found in our
                            conversation that he was the only son of a widow, & had
                            been in the army but three months. He had left home
                            for the fun of a soldier life and had gotten more
                            than he had expected. With a trembling voice his
                            heart bleeding with sorrow, he told me he wished he
                            had never left home and mother for now 1864 July 22. he would never see them again. He belong to
                            an Illinois regiment. Poor boy he had our
                            sympathies. Oh! the lonely, anxious waiting of sad
                            mothers for their sons of both Armies who never
                            would return. We remained here four or five days,
                            the Federal line was but a short distance from us,
                            and directly between us and our command. After we
                            had burried all of our regiment who were left here,
                            we wanted to return to the regiment. We asked
                            permission of our surgeon Dr. Dulaney.He had no objections, if we were willing to risk
                            being killed or captured which would be quite
                            different if we remained. We took the risk, flanking
                            both the Federal and our own lines. We reached the
                            city and our regiment safely.We give but a few of the killed and wounded of the
                            regiment in this battle. KilledWounded.Templeton John 16
                                        years old.Co"A"Yorkley MikeCo"C"King WmCo"C"Kennedy Thos""Colville Lieut R.W.""D"Kline Thos""Dyer B.H.""Sharp Lieut J.F.""F"Vestal Billie""E"Brabron Lieut T.M.""B"Rhea Robt J.""G"Ramsey John""Wagoner Geo""G"Ferris Sam""Godsey C.W.""McCray H------""Chamberlain Geo""DiedMcDemott Capt. P.H.""H"Epperson JohnCo"B"Richards Sergt John""Fulkerson Geo""Walker Col F.M.-Hodge James""Durit TomCo A=killedTempleton John""Long John""Bookard Silas"wounded & died.Atlanta1864 Aug 27th.We lay around Atlanta in
                            the ditches, fighting more or less every day until
                            the latter part of August.The writer frequently had to go into the city and to
                            the Depot. We were at the Depot one morning when the
                            Federals shelled the city with great fury.It seemed like they intended to set the city on fire, for
                            several buildings were fired, One large brick filled
                            with cotton on Peach tree street was set on fire by
                            a shell exploding inside the building, it burned for
                            weeks.In the vicinity of the Depot the shells fell fast and
                            thick, killing and wounding a good many. There were
                            two brick depots, with a space between them of some
                            fifteen feet. We wer standing on the platform,
                            looking at some men carrying a wounded man away, who
                            had just been hit with a piece of shell, when a
                            shell burst a few feet over our heads, the pieces
                            falling all around me, two or three of which struck
                            the floor within an inch or two of my feet. You need
                            not try to hide, brick walls were penetrated and
                            knocked down, so one place was as safe as an
                            other.Death rode upon every passing shellSending victims to Heaven or Hell.After the battle of 22d July Gen Cheatham came back
                            to his old division and Gen SD Lee took command of
                            Hood's Old Corps. The Tennesseeans were glad to get
                            their old command again, and Gen Cheatham was
                            equally glad. There was an affection between him and
                            his men that was sweet to enjoy.Jonesboro1864 Sept 1stGen Sherman had now nearly
                            encircled Atlanta. He had
                            sent the 16th and 17th Army Corps under Dodge and
                            Blair respectively around west of the city to "Ezra
                            Church." Hood sent Lee to attack there and if
                            nothing more to hold them, from joining Logan's and
                            Ransom's Corps, whom Hardee had gone to attack near
                            Jonesboro. Lee on the 28 August attacked Logan at
                            Ezra Church, but failing to drive him back fell back himself and joined Hardee at Jonesboro. Here Hardee
                            at 3.30 in the evening of September 1st attacked
                            Logan's and Ransom's Corps. The fight was stubborn,
                            and heavy, lasting until after dark, when seemingly
                            by mutual consent the two armies began to retire,
                            and moved in the same direction and almost on the
                            same road. We moved about two miles and went into
                            camp, the two armies it might be said to be occupying the same fields and skirt of
                            woods.A strange scene.It was after dark when the writer left the
                            battlefield, we were on the field with the litter
                            corps, but when the regiment began moving from the
                            scene of action, we moved off with it, and left the
                            others of the litter or surgeon's corps behind.
                            Halting about two miles from the battle field, the
                            entire Corps of Hardee went into bivouac.The whole country was full of soldiers, and soon
                            fires began to kindle up, and the Confederates did
                            not have half the fires that were made.1864 Sept 1stYou could not tell where the fires of the enemy ended
                            and where those of the Confederate began. Dr.
                            Dulaney and two of the litter corps, who came on
                            after the regiment had moved, had quite an
                            experience in finding our regiment. The first
                            regiment they came into camp nearly all the men were
                            lying down, with but very few fires visible
                            anywhere. The Dr. inquired whose regiment it was was astonished to learn that it was the 17th Ohio. Not betraying his
                            astonishment, he said boys our regiment is further
                            on. Turning from this regiment he went on further & inquired again but to
                            learn that it was the 4th Ind. Now he was puzzled to
                            know which way to go. Seeing a line of fires but two
                            hundred yards to the right, he made for these &
                            found it to be the 19th Tenn. The Federals and our
                            men took rails from the same fense, filled canteens from the same
                            branch, almost touching heads as each leaned from
                            opposite sides. Your humble writer was standing
                            alone by a small camp fire just started up - when a
                            soldier came up and threw of his shoulder a load of
                            rails at his feet. There we were the Blue & Gray
                            looking at each other; neither spoke - he returned
                            in the direction from which he came. Some of the Old
                            19th stepped across the Federal camp fires &
                            borrowed some picks & shovels to dig riffle
                            pits, & when done returned them.About midnight Gen Hardee rode into one camp and
                            asked Arthur Fulkerson Co K pointing to some camp fires about two
                            hundred yards off in a skirt of woods whose command that was? Arthur told him they were the enemy. Gen
                            Hardee thought he must be mistaken. No, said Arthur,
                            our men have  just been over there
                            to borrow some picks & shovels & have
                            returned. Arthur said he would go over there, &
                            see whose command it was: he went over there but did
                            not return; and General Hardee knew they were the
                            enemy and Arthur was captured. The camp fires
                            revealed the true situation. The Federals had us
                            surrounded like a horseshoe - with a gap of only
                            four hundred yards and through this opening about
                            two oclock in the night Gen Hardee moved his command with as much
                            silence as ever men moved. We slipped out from the
                            grasp of the enemy so silently that they did not
                            know we were gone till daylight. So Arthur saved
                            Hardee. This was the last battle of the campaign,
                            and while Hardee was fighting here at Jonesboro;
                            Hood was hurrying every thing away from Atlanta. He hurried away to
                            join Hardee & Lee below Jonesborow, at Lovejoy
                            Station. Here we remained several days, not far from
                            our last battle ground. We lost out of our old
                            regiment several killed and wounded.We mourn the many battle scared veterans of the old 19th Tenn who
                            have found a quiet resting place on this
                            campaign.Many are the places hallowed by the passing out of
                            the life blood of the noble Confederate veterans.
                            Just how many of the old 19th Tenn were left by the
                            way side since we left Dalton, I leave to the many silent
                            mounds to tell.1864 Sept 19thBut the Dalton and Atlanta Campaign was now
                            ended. Sherman returned
                            to Atlanta, and for a few
                            days and nights not a sound of cannon or musketry
                            was heard. There was a feeling of sweet rest, for
                            the present at least from the toil and strife of
                            battle.All the regiments were so reduced by the ravages of
                            war that they were but mere skeletons, and in order
                            to make them more respectable, there was ordered a
                            consolidation of regiments. There were now in our
                            regiment three regiments, the 19th, 24th and
                            41st.So it ran through out the whole army, yet neither
                            regiment lost its identity or individuality.In the new arrangement, our regiment was commanded by
                            Col. James D. Tilman, keeping its place in Strah's
                            brigade. On the 19th September the Army left
                            Jonesboro and moved to Palmetta on the Atlanta and Westpoint
                            railroad, where after fortifying, we sat down for a
                            quiet rest. - a much needed rest.Brown, IsacCo"D"JonesboroughWoundedMajors C.C.""""Johnson J.J.""G""" & DiedRichards N""K"""Johnson Andy G."K""An illustration of soldiers on horses
                                pulling cannons.Chapter XIX.Visit of Pres Davis.The young Confederacy had evidently reached a crisis
                            in its struggle for existence. The clouds that had
                            been gathering to obscure the future prospects of
                            the Confederacy were becoming more dark and
                            pretentious. At this juncture of affairs President
                            Davis, Howell E Cobb and others, paid the Army of
                            Tennessee a visit. Something had to be done. And to
                            infuse new life and vigour into the men speeches
                            were made by the President, Cobb and others. While
                            Cobb was speaking, pouring his sweet sounding words
                            in our ears, a private remarked that a shell or two
                            would knock all the sweetness out in less than no
                            time. The hopes of success, in the minds of the
                            soldier had began to fade and grow dim.Davis and his crowd like the weary pilgrim, "Could Tarry but a night."Soon after the departure of Davis, Gen Hardee
                            resigned his place in the Army of Tennessee and took
                            command else where. Rumors were rife in camp as to
                            what was coming next. Some said Hardee resigned
                            because Hood was in command of the Army. Hurriedly changes were made
                            in all the regiments and companies. Capt JH Hannah was made
                                    major of regiment, Maj Deadrick having been
                                    posted to Col of another regiment. 1st Lieut
                                    J.M. Sims made Capt of Co F= Maj Hannah had
                                    been Captain of Co "F" since its
                                    organization in 1861= kind hearted, &
                                    esteemed by all. Made a good soldier &
                                    so gained the respect of his superior
                                    Officers that as soon as a vacancy was made
                                    Capt Hanna was made Major of the regiment.
                                    This was done October 10th 1864= He was in
                                    line for promotion Dec 1863 - but his
                                    compandy, demurred so he did not present his
                                    claims until in 1864, Maj- Hannah came of
                                    patriotic stock, His Father who was 79 years
                                    old with five sons one of whom was Maj J.H.
                                    Hannah joined the 19th Tenn regt at its
                                    organization in 1861. Lieut J A Kimboraugh was made Captain of Co
                            "H" in place of Capt McDematte killed. Lieut B.F.
                            Hoyle of Co "H" resigned and went to other field of
                            service. The boys hated to give up Lieut Hoyle for
                            he had been with them through thick and thin,
                            sunshine and shadow of camp life for a long
                            time.September the 28th the Army was again put in motion,
                            and our faces this time were turned toward
                            Tennessee, but when we would reach the goal of our
                            anxious hearts was hidden in the womb of the future.
                            On our way we passed to the left of Atlanta, and not far from
                            Kennesaw Mountain, which stood with towering head,
                            keeping lone vigil over the thousands slain in
                            battle at its feet. The record of the battle fought
                            here will be handed down to coming ages, and will
                            mark an epoch in the history of this now famous
                            Mountain. As we gazed sadly from a distance it
                            seemed as if we still saw lingering the smoke of
                            battle and the scene of strife was again vivid in
                            memory. On the 9th of October we passed through
                            Cedar town, the enemy being in Rome, we flanked that
                            city, and made for Dalton
                            which we reached on the 14th.Dalton1864 Octo 14thThere was but little change in Dalton since we left it in May, save on
                            top of the eastern hill, the Federals had thrown up
                            a fort, garrisoned with negro troops and four brass
                            pieces which looked viciously on all around. We soon
                            took them in and all they had. The Federals also had
                            a block house up in Gap at Rocky face with a small
                            garrison.Gen Bate moved up on them, demanded a surrender but
                            they not knowing who made the demmand and thinking
                            it was a hurriedly passing scout, the demmand was
                            indignantly refused. But when Bates division came in
                            sight, and he had turned a battery on them, and
                            began knocking down their fortress they quickly gave
                            in. We remained here but two days and nights.
                            Leaving Dalton, we passed
                            through Mill Creek gap and turned westward, for
                            Lafayette. We passed on through this place, making
                            our next objective point next Gadsden AlaAlabama, about sixty five miles southwest, which
                            we reached October the 21st We rested here two or
                            three days, drew clothing and rations, and having no
                            use for money we did not draw any. Leaving Gadsden
                            we turned our course north west & headed for
                            Decatur.Decature1864 October 17thSoon after leaving Gadsden we struck sand Mountain, a
                            most dreary and desolate looking region. to that of the Cumberland
                                near Jonestown.After a march of seventy five miles we reached
                            Decatur on the 17th. Here we found a garrison of Ten
                            thousand Federals well fortified, with a strong fort
                            commanding every approach to the town.We did not attempt and attack on the place, we could
                            not have taken it without considerable loss of men
                            and delay of time, which just now seemed to be of
                            more value than men, and more if we had taken it,
                            without the loss of a single man it would have been
                            of no importance to the Army. We remained here
                            however two days and nights, with pickits around the town from the river
                            above to the river below.Our division was encamped in an open field of nearly
                            a mile in extent, out in front of the fort near a
                            small Grave yard or cemetry.
                            During the evening of the second day we (the writer)
                            went out to our vidette post. The rifle pits were
                            just large enough for three men. The fort stood on
                            an elevation, over looking us with an open field
                            between us, and not knowing seemingly more than four
                            hundred yards away. Now and then a cannon shot from the fort would pass over us.As we returned from the vidette post, and had gotten
                            about thirty or fifty yards away, there came a shot
                            from the fort to hurry us up. It struck the ground a
                            hundred yards behind us, bending and stricking the
                            ground about every forty or fifty yards & passed
                            us about ten feet to the right and went on bounding
                            to the woods. It was evidently fired at us.Tuscumbia.1864 October 31stLeaving here we counted the cross ties on the R. Road
                            to  Tuscumbiaa distance of forty miles,
                            and at the foot of the mussel shoals, which we
                            reached November the
                                1st.Here Gen Hood expected to find ample supplies for the
                            campaign into Tennessee, the pontoons across the
                            river ready, every thing complete so he could hurry
                            on without delay. But no supplies were there and no
                            visible sigins of any coming.
                            Gen Beauregard ad this in hand. had promised all
                            necessary supplies, but had utterly failed. This
                            failure was certainly against Hood and the Army of
                            Tennessee.While we were tired and willing to rest, we were more
                            willing to go on to the goal of our Ambition, to once more to be on
                            Tennessee soil. No one but Beauregard knew why every
                            thing was not ready and waiting for Hood. After days
                            of anxious if not painful waiting, on Sunday morning
                            Nov 15th we looked out and saw a pontoon spanning
                            the river at the foot ot the mussel shoals. We moved
                            out the morning of the 15th with banners flying and
                            bands playing and crossed the river with a
                            shout.Florence1864 Nov 21stWe passed through Florence going out one mile we
                            pitched camp and remained until the 21st still
                            waiting for Beauregard's supplies. We were in need
                            of clothing. To begin a campaign away from our base
                            of supplies, and that too in winter was indeed hazardous. So
                            poorly clothed were we that we could not but expect suffering from cold.
                            At Gadsden Ala a few had drawn clothing, but only
                            those in extreme necessity.The winter had set in cold, with snow and sleet and
                            our army was poorly provisioned for such
                            weather.The order was to move and we must obey. Hood left
                            Florence with three Army Corps.The 1st Corps under Gen Cheatham, and the 2d Corps
                            under Gen Lee. Maj. Gen Brown had Gen Cheatham old
                            division composed of four brigades.The Army of Tennessee Gen. J.B. Hood
                            Commanding.1st Corps2nd Corps3rd CorpsGen B.H. CheathamGen A.P. StewartGen S.W.D. LeeCleburne's Div.Bate's Div.Brown's Div.Trenel's Div.Loving's Div.Watthrall's Div.Johnson's Div.Clayton's Div.Stevenson's Div.BrigadesBrigadesBrigadesBrigadesBrigadesBrigadesBrigadesBrigadesBrigadesPolk (Lowney's) R. KilledSmithStrahl O.H.Ectar M SHeatherstone W. S. Died May 28-91Shelley (Cantey's)Dias E. C.GibsonPetters E.W.Govan D.C. W. WoundedJackson J.R.Gist S. R.Cocknell H. M.Adams JohnReynoldsBrantlyHothclaw J. T. Died July 25-93CumminsGransbury H.B. C. CapturedHinsleyCarter J. C.SearsScott J.M.Lirarles WAManagantt AM.StovallParknerMenersGordon J.W. (vaughn)SharpWe started out from Florence early in the morning of
                            Nov 21st This was one of the coldest days of the
                            winter. It rained, sleeted and snowed. The wind blew
                            almost a hurricane in our faces, and with the snow,
                            was almost blinding. All day we ploded through the
                            blast, so slowly we could hardly keep warm. Late in
                            the evening we halted for the night, passing it
                            without rest or comfort to our weary bodies. We had
                            gone only about 12 miles.The second morning the storm and cold had grown in
                            intensity, the wind was blowing a blizzard but on we
                            went. The second night we went into camp eighteen
                            miles from the night before and filed into the woods
                            after dark. The snow and ice covered everything, for
                            it had been snowing, sleeting and freezing all day long.
                            Soon trees began to fall from the hurried use of the
                            ax, and being after dark, the men could not be on
                            the lookout for falling trees. They came crashing
                            down here and there among them. We learned one man
                            was killed and others hurt by the falling trees. It is needless to
                            say, we began our march amdist difficulties and
                            hardships the third day and that night camped four
                            miles north of Waynesboro.Columbia1864 Nov 28thOn November 28th we reachedColumbia and found the enemy in considerable force,
                            about 30,000. They were entrenched on the south bank
                            of Duck River. As soon as Hood approached Columbia, the Federals
                            hastened from Pulaska, and the points around and in
                            close proximity to Columbia, and began strengthening their
                            fortifications, and presented a stubborn opposition to Hood's faster
                            advance into Tennessee.Spring Hill1864 Nov 29thAll of Hood's men did not get up the first evening,
                            and most of his Artillery was behind. The enemy
                            would have crossed to the north side of the river
                            that night but it was so strong neither army could
                            or did any maneuvering what ever. Hood did not
                            attack the enemy here. At the gray dawn of next
                            morning the 29th, the head of Cheatham's column
                            accompanied by Gen Hood himself could have been seen
                            crossing the river, six miles above Columbia, with Cleburne's
                            division in front. From this place to Spring Hill
                            there were two roads parallel and not more than half
                            mile apart. The enemy as early as we pushed out on
                            the main pike. We had to take an old and partly
                            abandoned dirt road.We double quicked a good part of the way to Spring
                            Hill. Gen Forrest who had beaten us to Spring Hill
                            had entered the town, but was being driven back by
                            Wagner's and Kimball's divisions of the enemy, who
                            had preceeded Forrest but a very short time, when we
                            arrived.Cleburne's division was the first infantry to engage
                            the enemy and as Brown's division to which the Old
                            19th belonged came up the enemy retired towards Franklin. We remained here all
                            night.Chapter XX.On to Franklin.The next morning November the
                                30th we moved out for Franklin. Stewart's
                            Corps moved in the following order, Brown's
                            division, Cleburne and Bate's divisions, then came
                            Johnson's division of Lee's Corps. The other
                            divisions of Lee's were behind. About one oclock
                            that evening we reached the Winstead hills, a ridge
                            crossing the Columbia pike
                            at right angles, about one and a half miles out from
                            Franklin. From these hills to the town was an open
                            plain, with nothing to obscure the vision, save here
                            and there small clusters of shrubberry. The ground
                            is a little undulating, but a gradual incline up to
                            the works of the enemy. Out in front of the enemy
                            and about the center of our right wing had been a
                            Locust thicket, but this was now cut down and made into an abatis.
                            Running through this plot of ground were hedge
                            fences.The 23d Army Corps of the Federals under Schofield
                            held this part of their line from the river above
                            town to the point where the Center Creek pike
                            enters. Their right was held by the fourth Army
                            Corps under Kimball.Schofield had thrown a heavy line of infantry
                            strongly entrenched out from their main
                            fortifications 1864 Nov 30th and a skirmish line still beyond this. Their
                            main fortifications stood on the highest elevations,
                            extending from behind the Carter house on past the
                                Gin house towards the river. This
                            fortification literally bristled with cannon. The
                            enemy had a battery on the opposite side of the
                            river that not only enfiladed our whole line, but raked our
                            entire field. Now in the face of all this glittering
                            belt of bayonets and cannon waiting to be turned
                            loose upon us, Hood advanced without the least
                            faltering. In the back yard of the Carter house,
                            between it and the enemy's works stood a locust
                            thicket. Near the pik and between the dwelling and
                            works stoon and old one story house, and in the rear
                            of the dwelling was a brick smoke house. Across the
                            pike stood the Gin house some fifty yards from the
                            dwelling house.The Harpeth river makes a horse shoe bend around the
                            town. There are three pikes going into Franklin, the
                            Lewisburg, Columbia, and
                            Carter Creek pike. On the Winstead hills Hood halted
                            and formed his line, between the hills and the town
                            out in the open plain. Stewart formed on the right,
                            his right resting on the Lewisburg pike. Cheatham
                            formed on Cleburne's and Brown's divisions on the
                            left of the Columbia pike, while Bate moved further
                            to the left and formed line near the Carter Creek
                            pike. Often, upon the eve of battle, is observed in
                            the actions of brave men something never before
                            noticed.1864 Nov 30thSomething which seems to spring from an innate
                            feeling of coming danger - a presentiment of disaster or
                                    death. While we were yet on the Winstead hills
                            resting and waiting for the orders, Our brigadier
                            general, Strahl rode off to himself, dismounted
                            spread his blanket on the ground & reclined as
                            if worn out - having nothing to say to any one, save
                            as his orderlies receive and gave reports. No one
                            ever observed this in Gen Strahl before. We
                            understood afterwards that Gen Strahl remarked to
                            two other Generals that he would be killed in this
                            engagement.As we moved from the top of the hills, Gen Strahl as
                            he rode by the Old 19th remarked in our hearing,
                            "Boys this will be short but desperate." These were
                            the last words we ever heard Gen Strahl utter.The BattleThe command forward, march! was given. The men moved
                            off with little care seemingly as to the fate
                            awaiting them. What a grand and imposing sight the
                            Army presented this beautiful Autumn evening, with
                            the golden haze of an Indian Summer, with not a
                            cloud to obscure the sun as it shown upon the field.As the line advanced, Cleburne's division moved to
                            the right and crossed the Columbia pike. Strahl's
                            brigade of Brown's division kept on the left, and
                            colsed up with Cleburne's division & rested on
                            the pike and running back around the Carter
                            house.Walthrall and Loring on the right encountered Brown's division as they moved
                                forward charged = putting Strahl on right &
                                Gordon on left which placed Strahl on the
                                pike.Map of the Battlefield of Franklin, Tenn.
                                November 30th, 1864.Map of the Battlefield of Franklin,
                                Tennessee.MAJ.GENERAL JOHN C. BROWN, C.S.A.Portrait of Major General John C.
                                Brown.1864 Nov 30tha deep cut in the railroad which necessitated a flank
                            movement under a heavey and
                            destructive fire from the enemy's 18 guns across the
                            river which raked Stewart's whole line. With
                            Cleburne on the right of the Columbia pike
                            Cheatham's Corps moved forward and soon the whole
                            line was engaged. The charged with that
                            characteristic yell of the Southern trops, Brown and Cleburne overwhelmed
                            Lane's and Conrad's brigades captured several of
                            their men, driving them from their advanced line on
                            over their main works, also driving Ruger's and
                            Ruly's command, and reached their main ditches in
                            front of the Carter house and the Gun house. Gen
                            Gordon, who was on the left of Brown's division penetrated the main line of the enemy, with
                            part of our brigade and there he was captured.
                            Grit's brigade althrough encountering a locust
                            Abatis succed in reaching the ditches around the
                            Carter house.Granberry, Govan and Polk carried the works from the
                            pike around and beyond that Gin house, and drove two
                            Ohio regiments from their ditches capturing two guns
                            and turned the gus upon the routed regiments.
                            French's division charged and carried a part of the
                            enemy's works held by Rielly in which Sear's brigade
                            was almost annihilated, being torn and mutilated in
                            the assault in which Col. Witherspoon of the 36 MissMississippi lay dead close by the captured Artillery.
                            Gen Cockrell with two wounds fell on the field and
                            Col Gates assooming command
                            of his brigade almost immediately had one arm
                            terribly lacerated, and was wounded in the other 1864 Nov 30th yet strange to say even after this, this
                            iron nerved Missourian sat on his horse while one
                            led him, with both arms hanging useless, and gave
                            command in the midst of this storm of shot and
                            musketry.In the mean time further on to our right, Walthrall's
                            and Loring's divisions approached the ditches and
                            became entangled in an osage orang abatis.Casement's Federal brigade in front of Walthrall had those
                            improved repeating rifles and were well provided
                            with Artillery besides the help from the battery
                            across the river. It seemed Walthrall had to fight
                            Death Hell and the Devil and each one had the
                            advantage of him. Walthrall had two horses killed
                            under him, and each time mounted a horse belonging
                            to one of his staff who lay dead around him.The evening passed into Walthrall's and Loring'sFrench's men such a constant fire that their line
                            held by Casement's men seemed a fringe of flame.Here in this charge Gen Luarles fell mortally
                            wounded and around him lay all his staff dead. A
                            Captain as ranking officer took command of the
                            brigade. They reached the enemy's ditches, but their
                                thined ranks could not
                            hold them under such a fire. Adam's Featherston's
                            and Scott's brigades assaulted Stile's position
                            which was well fortified and was bravely defended.
                            Here Gen Scott was wounded and Adams was killed his
                            hour both falling on the breast works.Walthrall's and Loring's divisions could not hold
                            their position.THE BATTLEFIELD OF FRANKLIN, TENNESSEE,
                                LOOKING NORTH FROM GENERAL CHEATHAM'S
                                HEADQUARTERS. (FROM A PHOTOGRAPH BY L. T.
                                SHULL.)Illustration of the battlefield of
                                Franklin, Tennessee, looking North from General
                                Cheatham's headquarters.THE CARTER HOUSE, FROM THE CONFEDERATE SIDE.
                                FRONT VIEW OF THE CARTER HOUSE. (FROM PHOTOGRAPH
                                TAKEN IN 1884.)Illustration of the Carter House.FRONT VIEW ON THE GIN-HOUSE, FROM THE
                                PIKE.Illustration of the Gin-House.BRIGADIER-GENERAL D. H. REYNOLDS.Portrait of Brigadier General D.H.
                                Reynolds.1864 Nov 30As they fell back Col Dyer of the 3d Miss and many
                            others were left in the ditches dead. Coming back to
                            Cleburne we found the enemy were not long in
                            reoccupying their line made vacant by the repulse of
                            the two Ohio regiments.Gen Pat CleburneGeneral Patrick Ronaye
                                        Cleburne in a heroic effort to dislodge them and hold
                            the works fell in front of the 16th KYKentucky regiment, he and his horse falling across
                            the works a short distance from the gin house. The
                            conflict raged with intense fury, the enemy no doubt
                            every moment increasing their strength, while our
                            lines were being rapidly diminished. So stuborn was the resistance
                            around the gin house that the two contending forces fought with
                            bayonet and clubed guns.On our left Strahl who was on the pike and joining
                            Cleburne held the ditches and so did the rest of
                            Brown's division hold their position while the
                            battle went on fierce and bloody.Our brigade stuck to their ditches and fought with
                            the desperation of mad tigers. They were being shot
                            down as if savage beasts. The works after crossing
                            the pike turned down and ran parallel with the pike
                            a few feet, which angle put our regiment and brigade
                            under a terrible and enfilading fire, and also that
                            of Gist's and Carter's The following diagram will
                            show the position. Diagram of troop positions.1864 Nov 30Strahl and Gist not only caught the fire of the enemy
                            from the front, but a deadly one from across the
                            pike.Gordon was already captured, Gist was killed and
                            Carter mortally wounded and died in his own yard
                            soon after. This "Carter house" was the house of
                            this Gen Carter, who was wounded and died in the
                            very threshold of his own home, while his wife and
                            children were in the basement of the house during
                            the battle.The works here in front of us were so high the men
                            could not scale them. Gen Strahl helped one of the
                            Old 19th up on top of the works, when he was shot
                            fell over on the side of the enemy. Then an other
                            who was helped up when he too was shot, the General
                            holding on to him, pulled him back into our own
                            ditch.Tomas Alexander of Athens Tenn, and of Co "H" said,
                            "Gen help me up," "No," replied Gen Strahl "I have
                            helped my last man up to be shot in my hands."Soon after this Gen Strahl was killed, followed
                            quickly by all his staff, who fell one upon the
                            other. Not withstanding Cleburne's and French's
                            divisions had been repulsed, Strahl's Gist's
                            Carter's and Gordon's bregades held the ground they
                            had gained with both their flanks exposed and
                            especially Strahl's from the cross fire between them
                            and the gin house.Bates' division on our left had not been idle. He
                            assaulted the works exposed to a heavey fire both of
                            Artillery and musketry. Cleburne Division of
                            Cheatham's Corps and French's of Stewart's Corps not
                            withstanding the desperate assault they had made 1864 Nov 30 and the terrible loss they had sustained,
                            did not loose their morale but again renewed the
                            attack and made a desperate effort to dislodge the
                            enemy who had been reinforced and were again playing
                            havoc with our men. In this charge Gen Granberry was
                            killed and his brigade was drived back with
                            considerable loss. Sear's and Cockrell's brigades
                            were almost destroyed.Walthrall again renewed the attack and was repulsed
                            leaving many of his men dead and wounded in the
                            ditches. Loring again made a desperate attempt to
                            drive the enemy from the works in front of him, in
                            which Featherston, Scott, and Adams received a
                            destructive fire from the batteries across the
                            river, and a fearful one from his front. Our whole
                            right was driven back again and this time did not
                            renew the attack again.On our left Brown's and Bates' division held the
                            works they had taken at first, they could not be
                            driven out althrough they were under a most galling
                            and terriffic fire from the enemy. Soon after Gens
                            Gist, Carter and Strahl were killed Gen Brown fell
                            severely wounded in resisting Stricklin reinforced
                            by Stiles who tried to recapture the ditches or
                            drive us out of them.A little after dark Johnson's division of Lees Corps
                            charged the enemy for the first time, to the left of
                            Brown. This division moved forward in the dark, and
                            after stumbling over men who lay dead and wounded on
                            the field over which they passed, stormed the works
                            and the battle was again renewed 1864 Nov 30 swelling the death roll of the God of war.
                            This division went into the fight Bulldog fashion to
                            drive the enemy or die in the attempt.In the assault Gens Johnson and Managault fell mortlly wounded. Sharp's
                            Brantly's and Dea's brigades suffered severely,
                            Johnson's division was repulsed. This was the last
                            charge. But now and then an occasional volly was heard until 10oclock
                            at night.The Old 19th Tenncertainly went through the
                            furnace to day. She withstood not only a most
                            galling fire from her front but a destructive
                            enfilading one from the right, and but a few yard
                            away. During the battle Lieut Frank H. Hale of Co
                            "H" succeeded in scaling the works and crawled about
                            twenty feet in side the Federals lines to the framed
                            house mentioned heretofore, that stood in the yard
                            of the Carter house, where he was killed, filled
                            with bullets no doubt from the guns of his own
                            regiment. Sergeant Lem Walker of Co "E" also crossed
                            the works and took shelter behind the brick smoke
                            house, just in the rear of the dwelling were he was
                            wounded. Comes in on page 238
                                at = And also Lieut W.W. Etter of Co K did get
                                upon the works & jumped down among the
                                Federals. They took off their hats to him, but
                                did not take him prisner, and he succeeded in
                                reaching the brick smoke house & remained
                                unhurt till the Federals retreated & he
                                rejoined the regiment. Zach Smith of Co A fired
                                from the top of the breast works repeatedly. And
                                Gen Strahl said to him, Zach my brave fellow I
                                will not forget you for this. But our beloved
                                General died in the works. Arthur Fulkerson the
                                Sergeant Maj of the regiment fell in the charge
                                just before reaching the works, pierced by
                                sixteen bullets. This frame house next
                            morning presented the appearance of a sive, so full
                            of bullet holes.Gen Carter who was killed, owned this place and his
                            family during the battle was in the basement of the
                            house. He fell in his own yard, but a few yards from
                            his affectionate wife and devoted children.1864 Nov 30In this fearful struggle French lost about sixty
                            percent of his men, almost annihilating his
                            division.Walthrall, in his assaults, was not only repulsed but
                            almost destroyed. Loring next was repulsed with
                                greate loss.
                            Then came Cleburne, who in his last and desperate
                            charge at the Gin house, lost heavely in killed and wounded was driven
                            back and he, himself was killed. Brown's division, in which
                            the Old 19th filled a conspicuous place, after
                            repeated heroic charges captured the ditches in
                            front of him and held them notwithstanding the
                            assault was made under a heavy fire. The enemy made
                            repeated efforts to dislodge him, but he held his
                            captured position to the end. Gen Brown himself was
                            wouned and all his Generals were killed save one and he was captured.Johnson then made the last sad assault as before
                            mentioned, and was repulsed with slaughter of his
                            men.Reader, it makes us sick now, as we think of that
                            bloody scene, that beautiful November evening, and
                            it almost drives the frozed current of life back on
                            the chilled heart. We stand aghast as we now think
                            of the battlefield of Franklin.The Angle of Death certainly
                            held high carnival that sorrowful night in the Army
                            of Tennessee.Oh! This one scene of butchery will go down the ages
                            in history as a black page in the
                            memory of our lost Cause! The firing ceased about
                            10=oclock that night and the Army bivouaced on the
                            field. 1864 Nov 30As soon as it was ascertained that the enemy had left
                            Franklin, the infirmary and relief corps were on
                            every part of the field with torches hunting up and
                            rendering assistance to the thousands of wounded and
                            suffering, whose agonizing appeals, that cold bitter
                            night were enough to melt with sympathy the hardest
                            heart. Gen Cheatham as he walked over the field of
                            carnage that night and looked by the glare of the
                            torch light into the hundreds of pale faces, silent
                            in death in places the dead lay in
                                    heaps and upon the thousands of wounded covered
                            with blood and appealing for water or for help the
                            great big tears ran down his cheeks and he sobbed
                            like a child. Before him lay not only his
                                boys as he called them, but his Generals,
                            all dead. That noble kind, bighearted brave General,
                            who was lovd by all wept. Yes
                            he wept and each tear it can truthfully be said bound his men to him
                            and he to them nearer than ever before.A wreck.A veteran army was wrecked on this field of battle, - a bloody holocaust to the
                                    moloch of war. The dead and wounded were numbered by the
                            thousands, the regimental and brigade organizations
                            were broken up; guns and equipage broken and
                            scattered; colors were lying here and there stained
                            with the life blood of those who bore them. All
                            these showed plainly the magnitude of the disaster.
                            The dead and wounded marked the field over which the
                            divisions charged. In front of the intrenched lines
                            were strewed the bodies of slaughtered heros 1864 Nov 30 officers and men, proving clearly the
                            intense fury of assault. In the intrenchments
                            captured and held by Strahl's and Carter's brigades
                            of Brown's division, the dead lay in heaps, and in
                            some places in the ditches were piled seven deep. On
                            the dead body of Gen Strahl fell that of Capt
                            Johnson and Lieut Marsh, and others fell on them.
                            Regimental and Company officers were seen supported
                            in an almost upright position by the dead who had
                            fallen first, now so stiff
                                in death.Home and Mother.When we crossed the Tennessee river at Florence on
                            our way into Tennessee, Gen Hood promised the boys
                            who lived on and near the road we had to travel, one
                            or two days furlough to see home and friends from
                            whom they had been absent for two and three years. After finding the
                            large force of the enemy at Columbia expecting resistance at nearly
                            every point he requested the boys to remain consented with
                            their commands until after a certain time or place
                            had been passed. That after we had gone beyond
                            Franklin he would grant their leave of absence. As
                            we passed on many of the boys could see the blue smoke away in
                            the distance curling up from the old hearth stone,
                            around which clustered the sweetest associations of
                            their childhood days, and where Mother, sisters,
                            wives and children looked for a happy meeting of
                            loved ones again.1864 Nov 30No doubt, as the brave boys faithful to their trust,
                            passed the house they loved so well they felt, and
                            deep in the recesses of their heart, they said
                            Mother we will be with you, wait! "We are going home to morrow." Little did they then think that to them
                            tomorrow would never come. Yes the dear old mothers
                            and sisters anxiously waited and looked long with
                            weeping and sorrowful hearts for their dear soldier
                            boys but they never came.In the 15th Mississippi regiment were six brothers
                            who were all killed in this battle, and perhaps
                            neither one knew of the other's death till they met
                            the next morning in eternity. These were all burried
                            long years ago, but will not be forgotten for years
                            to come. Comrades sleep! We meet no more until our tents are spread on fame's eternal camping ground.Beyond the sun set; beyond the clouds; beyond the
                            stars that shine as suns for other worlds; in the
                            home of the soul we hope to meet you; "Then how sweet it will be in that beautiful
                                    landSo free from all sorrow and painWith songs on our lips and harps in our
                                    handsTo meet one an other again."In looking over this sad scene the question iristibly forsees itself up on
                            us, who was to blame for all this? Was it one of the
                                1864 Nov 30th inexplicable decrees of Fate? And why did
                            not Hood fight at Columbia? These questions may never be satisfactorialy answered.If Hood had flanked Schofield at Franklin and gone on
                            to Nashville, he would not only have put himself
                            between two Armies either of which was his eaqual, and there by hazard his
                            entire Army, but he would have cut off all posible hope of
                            escape.Franklin from a military stand point was of no
                            significant value asid from
                            the fact that the road leading to Nashville led through
                            it. And as Hood's objective point was Nashville, and as he could not go around Schofield, nothing was
                            left him but to retreat or storm the
                            place.Hood was given to the Army with the express
                            injunction fight. Here he saw his
                            fearful responsibility reach its noon tide. But the
                            brave old General, with but one leg and one arm like
                            the Spartan of old stood firm in the discharge of
                            what he thought to be his duty.Had he retreated his star of glory would have gone
                            down behind a cloud to rise no more.Jefferson Davis told the
                            truth when he said, "If Hood, by and impetuous
                            attack had crushed Schofield with but little loss to
                            himself, and if Forrest could have carried out his
                            intentions in capturning Schofield's trains, we
                            should never have heard aught against Hood's attack
                            on Franklin."1864 Nov 30Must we say this is all the fate of War? Or is it the
                            display of that unseen power the "vis a tergo" that
                            showed its potency in the death of Albert Sidney JohnsonJohnston at Shiloh, and in
                            the removal of Joseph E. JohnsonJohnston before reaching Atlanta.There was no earthly reason why either of these
                            should have been taken away.We do not always see clearly the hand writing on the
                            wall, and attribute too many things to carelessness
                            and accident. The why, we will see after while.A young lady of Memphis Tennessee speaking poetically
                            of the battle of Franklin says:"Behind the works looms up the lines of Blue,Before, the timbers fallen by cautious handsTo break the ranks of Gray. 'Twixt these a
                                floorTo thrash with leaden flail the Southern
                                bands.Charge! Wild with ringing rebel yellThat flings its piercing echoes on the
                                breeze,The men like gray stars on a somber fieldCrash through the crackling limbs of fallen
                                trees.And on they move, above the deafning roarOf belching guns the weird yell rings again,And in the flash, it seems the gates of hellHad yawned wide as they gained the open
                                plain.When storm of shot and bursting shellAnd sweeps of
                                hurtling grape, with burning breathPour on the Southern host, undaunted yetStill facing close - the horrid hail of
                                death.1864 Nov 30th'Tis midnight hour and through lifting cloudsThe strugglin moon beams gaze on Franklin's
                                fieldUpon the war stained corps of friend and foeAnd weirdly kiss the lips for ever sealed."Only a few of the names of the killed and wounded
                            could be gotten. We lost nearly half of our men = in
                            killed & wounded = about 40%Killed.Fulkerson, ArthurSerg MajHale Lieut F.H.Co"H"Morgan JohnCo"C"Russell John""Knox W.G.""D"Looney Marshall""K"Bowers Billie""G"Webster E""Knox George""H"Potts Edgar""Bowers James"BHutson Andy""Wounded.Hicks Jos. SCo"G"Buran HenryCo"K"Alexander TomCo"H"Brumer S.H.Co"K"Wiggins James""Phipps William F.""Hale G.W""D"Hipsher Wm L""Henry S.R.""Waller Lunn"EKelley W.A.""Grisham James"KBates Robert""G"and capturedWhaley D.C.""and capturedRoller Geo""Meroney J.N.CoEwoundedsee page 340=Halley Wash B""Coughlin Pete"A"Mayfield Zack""Shipley BenK" in headDrake Geo""McCarty W.N.""Guning Joe""Etter Lieut W.W.""" face & handsChapter XXI.On to NashvilleAfter the dead were burried on
                            the field of Franklin and the wounded cared for in
                            the hospitals Gen Hood moved on to Nashville.Forrest with Chalmer's brigade of cavalry moved on
                            the Hillsboro pike, and Buford with Jackson's
                            brigade of Cavalry on the Wilson pike. These engaged
                            the enemy at Brentwood, but the Federals fell back
                            when Lee's Corps came up and camped for the night.
                            Stewart's Corps followed next.Cheatham's Corps remained in Franklin until Dec the
                            2d when he moved on for Nashville. Hood formed his
                            lines around Nashville almost parallel with those of
                            the enemy the evening of the 3d. On this line
                            Cheatham occupied the extreme right, covering the
                            line between the Nashville and Chattanooga railroad and the Nolensville
                            pike. Lee's Corps from Cheatham's left to and beyond
                            the Franklin Pike.Stewart's Corps joining Lee's left continued on and
                            across the Granny White pike. The evening of the 3d
                            Hood ordered Bate's division of Cheatham's Corps to
                            Murfreesboro, leaving Cheatham with only two
                            divisions, when he took position on the line around
                            Nashville.(Hood was criticized for this move on to Nashville,
                            and many thought he had not reasoned wisely, and
                            could not see what 1864 Dec 8th he hoped to gain. But the part of a good
                            soldier is not to criticize but obey. After a few
                            days hovering around scanty fires, and gazing upon
                            the capitol building from the red hills east of the
                            city, Gen Hood ordered Bate's division from
                            Murfreesboro to take its place in line with
                            Cheatham. The return of Bate's division into line
                            extended Stewart's line to and beyond the Hillsboro
                            pike, and almost to Hardin pike.From our position we could plainly see the Captial
                            and the guns that stood sentinel in the eastern
                            yard. The morning of December the 8th rolled around
                            bringing one of the coldest days we had experienced
                            for a long time. There were sleet, and snow, and ice
                            and rain, and the driving wind rendered it the more
                            uncomfortable.We were out in the open fields, on an elevation
                            without protection from the wintery blasts. We were
                            thinly clad, many of us with out shoes, with nothing
                            what ever to keep our sore and bleeding feet from
                            the cold and frozen ground. (The writer was one of
                            these) We were without tents, and with but one old
                            worn blanket to each man with which to cover at
                            night. Our only bed was the frozen ground, and that
                            covered with ice and snow. For days we stood
                            watching the enemy in this uncomfortable plight.Ambition, and even life its self were almost frozen
                            out of us. In the midst of all this we gazed
                            defiantly at the enemy in his comfortable quarters,
                            and at the frowning cannons on forts Negley, Casim
                            and Morton 1864 Dec 15th which were waiting _ like blood hounds held in leash - eager to be turned loose upon us. The cold weather
                            had some what subsided, when the morning of December
                            the 15th dawned, bringing with it a dense fog that
                            rested on the hill tops and covered all the plains.
                            Thomas in the early morning under cover of this fog,
                            moved his men and formed his lines before Hood knew
                            he was so closely threatened. By 9 Oclock the sun
                            had melted away the almost frozen fog, and the enemy
                            under Gen Steadman with a division of Negro troops,
                            was seen moving on Cheatham, who occupied the right
                            of our line, not far from the Rains house.In the mean time Thomas had concentrated his forces
                            on our left, and was waiting for the fog to blow
                            away. The negro troops in front of Cheatham came up
                            boldly in the charge, but at the first well directed
                            fire of our men, seeing many of their number fall
                            they turned to fly, but were by the second line of
                            their own men who with bayonets forced them to renew
                            the attack, with but a repetition of their former
                            effort. Steadman charged time and time again, but
                            was repulsed each time with severe loss. Cheatham
                            was not moved.On Hood's left and behind Ecton's brigade was
                            Chalmer's division of Cavalry, with Rucker's brigade
                            of Cavalry near the river. There was some cavalry on
                            the right of Ector. Walthall's division had been
                            withdrawn from Stewart's extreme left and put into
                            position in the rear of French's division, Map of the Battlefield of Nashville. Dec.
                                    15-16th, 1864. Drawn by Wilbur F. Foster,
                                    Major Engineer Corps, C.S.A.Map of the battlefield of
                                    Nashville.MAJOR-GENERAL E. C. WALTHALL.Portrait of Major-General E.C.
                                    Walthall.1864 Dec 16th to prepare works on some knolls for cannon
                            and to furnish one hundred men for each battery for
                            protection.Soon after Steadman's advance on Cheatham; Smith and
                            Wood of the enemy, with Wilson's cavalry, closely
                            followed by Schofield advanced on Stewart.Coleman who was commanding Ector's brigade as he
                            faught kept falling back slowly, using every
                            exertion to keep the enemy from turning his brigade
                            untill he reached the extreme left of Walthall. As
                            he fell back the 16th Army Corps rushed upon
                            Chalmers and swept him away like chalf before the
                            wind capturing his head quarter wagons, baggage
                            train, papers and records. The enemy also captured a
                            battery of four guns on a knoll with its support of
                            one hundred men. Still pressing forward, Stewart not
                            being able to check them, they captured an other
                            battery with all its supports from Stewart and
                            forced Walthrall around until his line was at right
                            angle to the one he occupied in the morning.
                            Walthall was now behind a Stone fence on the east
                            side of the Hillsboro pike. Hood ordered Johnson's
                            division of Lee's Corps to reinforce Stewart at this
                            point, but before Johnson arrived the enemy had
                            driven this part of Stewart's left from its
                            position, and through the skirt of woods between the
                            Hillsboro and Granny White pikes.On the arrival of Johnson the enemy were driven back
                            and Stewart reoccupied the woods, but only for a
                            short time. The enemy reinforced and drove our men
                            back and not only through the woods, but beyond 1864 Dec 15th and east of the Granny White pike, thus
                            turning Stewarts whole left flank, and gaining the
                            rear of Walthall and Loring. In this last charge
                            through the wood, Gen Sears lost his right leg by a
                            shot from one of Kimble guns, and was captured. The
                            Old 19th under Cheatham during all this time had not
                            been altogether idle, but the center of attraction
                            was on our left. As soon as the enemy crossed the
                            Granny White Pike Cheatham formed in rear of Stewart, and met
                            his advance and checked him. This put an end to the
                            days fighting and darkness coming on, the two Armies
                            settled down for the night.During the day, Hood was driven back about two and a
                            half miles. The weather was very cold and the ground
                            frozen. The sharp points of frozen mud rendered it
                            difficult, and even painful for Hood's brave
                            farefooted men to maneuver. Why Thomas did not
                            capture Hood's whole army seemed strange to us. Hood
                            had lost nearly all his artillery, but comparatively
                            few of his men. During the night of the 15th Hood
                            formed his lines with his right resting on Overton
                            hills east of the Franklin pike. Lee occupied the
                            Overton hills on our right, Stewart in the center
                            between the the two pikes and
                            Cheatham on the extreme left.Cheatham's line ran up to the summit of a high point
                            called Shy's hill and turned south at right angles
                            on the top.Strahl's brigade restid on top
                            of this knoll, the Old 19th extending from the
                            summit down the Southern slope. Here Cheatham
                            confronted Schofield's and part of Wilson's Corps.
                            Our men threw up breast works as best they could,
                            having no tools with which to work, and the ground
                            being frozen.Overton Hills1864 Dec 16thSteadman with his Negro brigades Post's and
                            Straight's divisions confronted Lee this time.
                            Post's division and Thompson's Negro trops were in front of Clayton's
                            division and Pettus' brigade of Stevenson's
                            division. During all the early morning Thomas kept
                            shelling Hood's line to find just how it ran. Maj
                            Frereheart had two guns he succeeded in bringing off
                            the field the day before, and planted them on a hill
                            or knoll in the rear of Bate's division. Thomas had
                            part of Smith's Corps in front of Cheatham, while
                            Schofield extended far beyond Cheatham's left with
                            Wilson's cavalry far around on our left flank.Thomas opened fire on Hoods left, all along on his
                            left wing about 8 or 9 oclock in the morning of the
                            1th. The artillery fire was heavy and lasted for an
                            hour or more. The infantry began moving against us,
                            then coming in solid columns and made repeated
                            charges but repulsed with loss. Thomas kept moving
                            to our left & reinforcing his right. About noon
                            they had gained the hills commanding the Granny
                            White Pike, and drove Cheatham from his position. As
                            Strahl's brigade descended and entered the corn
                            field at the base of the high knoll, they had to
                            cross the cross fire of the enemy's artillery and
                            from the small arms made it uncomfortably heavy.Brentwood Hills1864 Dec 16thThis knoll occupied by the Old 19th was a salient in
                            Hood's line, forming a right angle on this hill, and
                            as the Federals pressed in on the two sides, they
                            crowded us as we passed through the field. The
                            ground had thawed during the day just enough to be
                            sticky and cling to our feet, so that we could hardly get along, and being in an
                            exceedingly great hurry we thought we would never
                            reach the woods beyond.As we crossed this field Federals and Rebles were running together. Several of
                            our regiment were captured in this field. Our Color
                            bearer John Mason came very near loosing our colors.
                            A Federal caught at the flag several times, but
                            Mason tore them from the staff, and stuffed them in
                            his bosom and ran on and out safely. Thus far in all
                            our battles the colors of the Old 19th had escaped
                            capture. Tattered and torn by the bullets of many a
                            fray, it had survived them all and still was in the
                            hands of its old regiment to lead us where ever it
                            should go.As we fell back, Hood's whole left wing swung round,
                            and the enemy captured Generals Jackson and Smith an
                            Turner's battery, Gen Govan was wounded.As the regiment was going through the cornfield James
                            Havely came near being captured. He had almost given
                            out, his feet were so heavy from the mud clinging to them. In
                            running along near a rock wall or fence he
                            discovered an opening made by a shell through which
                            he went, and getting on to firm ground made his
                            escape.Brown's division and perhaps Bates passed through 1864 Dec 16th the Brentwoods Hills by an old dirt road
                            coming ino the Franklin pike just before reaching
                            Otter Creek.Lee on the right held his own, although there were
                            repeated assaults by Post's and Streight's brigades,
                            who were repulsed with a loss of two or three
                            hundred in killed and wounded. In one of the charges
                            Gen Post was wounded.Thompson's Negro brigade came against Clayton ant
                            Pettus like a black cloud rolling up the horizon
                            charging as if they would tear every thing before
                            them. They came up under fire but a short distance
                            and returned in double quick time leaving between
                            four and five hundred on the field when the left
                            wing gave way, Lee fell back, and formed again, and
                            the Army bivouaced within two miles of where our
                            line was in the morning. While the Army, especially
                            the left wing fell back in some confusion through
                            the Brentwood hills, they regained their composure
                            and camped in perfect quiet and order within two
                            miles of where they camped the night before.Smith Capt WmCo"C"NashvilleCapturedSullivan Dan""""Johns B.J."""WoundedHenderson Pink"E"CapturedMeroney W.O."E"Wounded & CapturedChapter XXII.RetreatAgain we started out on an other sad retreat. Not
                            since the retreat from Fishing Creek KyKentucky had the Army of Tennessee gone through
                            with as sad a journey as the one now marked out
                            before it. Sad because the weather was extremely
                            cold and rough and we were poorly clad.SadistSaddest of all, we left so many comrades behind
                            whose faces we will never see again. And sad too
                            because of our defeat.On the morning of the 17th we started out to recross
                            the Tennessee River. Holtsclaw's brigade brought up
                            and protected our rear until we passed Franklin and
                            reached Spring Hill. Maj Gen Lee was wounded noon on the 17th in a
                            charge of the enemy on the rear guard.Early in the morning on our left, Gen Rucker was
                            wounded and captured. At Spring Hill Brown's
                            division of Cheatham's Corps relieved Holtsclaw, and
                            protected the rear of Hood's Army which was
                            constantly pressed and harrassed by Wilson's
                            cavalry. The roads were very mudy and all of the
                            streams were swollen from the recent rains.Rutherford Creek when we reached it was rising
                            rapidly and when Wilson's cavalry arrived, the creek
                            was so swollen they could not cross and were delayed
                            several hours. On reaching Columbia, Hood placed Gen Stewart in the
                            fortifications thrown up by General Vandorn, to
                            protect the army while crossing Duck River. Gen
                            Forrest came up with us here, the first first time he left us for Murfreesboro. Stewart
                            was the last to cross. So hard pressed were we by
                            the enemy, that a few of Stwart's videtts were
                            captured before they could reach the crossing When the head of Cheatham's
                                command reached the pontoons a cross Duck river,
                                it met Forest Cavalry. The time for Forrest to
                                cross had arrived but Cheatham had been so hotly
                                engaged with the enemy, that he failed to cross
                                at his appointed hour. Forrest insisted on his
                                right to cross, Cheatham on his. Hot words
                                ensued; and all along the line of the Old 19th
                                the cocking of guns was heard and the whispered
                                threat if he touches Old Frank we will shoot him
                                & his whole command. But this state of
                                things was only for a moment. Forrest gave way
                                & Cheatham crossed before Forrest.
                            Thomas was certainly pressing our rear for all it
                            was worth, with the 4th and 16th Army Corps and
                            Wilson's Cavalry. The safty of Hood's Army lay
                            almost wholy in a substantial rear guard and to this
                            end on the 20th of December before leaving Columbia Gen Hood called on
                            Gen Walthall to take charge of a rear guard of
                            infantry and to give Gen Forrest such support as
                            would enable him to keep back the force of the enemy
                            that was following so closely upon his heels.Rear Guard1864 Dec 18thRear Guard.Gen Hood told Gen Walthall that this rear guard was a
                            place of honor, and very great responsibility and
                            peril and that he would not impose it upon him with
                            out his consent. And told him to pick out of the
                            Army such regiments as he thought he could rely
                            upon.Hood said the Army must be saved if that detachment
                            was sacrificed to accomplish it. Gen Walthall
                            replied that he had never asked for a hard place for
                            glory, nor for an easy one for comfort, but would
                            take his chances for weal or woe.Gen Walthall selected the brigades of Featherston,
                            Palmer, Sthral, Quarles, Ector, Reynolds, Maney and
                            Smith for this special guard. He felt that he could
                            rely upon these if put to the severest test of
                            manhood and bravery. And for thorough and effective
                                 movements he organized them
                            to the following brigades Under FeatherstonFeatherston'sBrigadeLuarles'"" ReynoldsReynolds'"Ector's"" FieldsManey's"Strahl's"" PalmerPalmer's"Smith's"1864 Dec 20There were eight brigades with an effective force of
                            only 1,600 men, the remnant of 30,000 who started
                            out at the beginning of the war. Hundreds of this
                            number sleep to day on the many battle fields.
                            Others are in risons, aothers again wounded and are
                            at home and in hospitals. Col. C.W. Heiskell who had
                            been absent for some time on account of wounds
                            received at Chickamauga in battle came to us just before we crossed the
                                    river at Columbia on our
                            retreat and was now in command of Strahl's
                            brigade.The Old 19th Tenn was one of the specially chosed
                            regigments which shows she stood high in the
                            estimation of the Chief Officers of the Army. Near bottom page 258 = We had
                                formed in line of march on Dec 20th when Gen
                                Hood rode up to the head of Strahl's brigade and
                                asked who was in command. Col. Heiskell replied,
                                "Col. Heiskell." And the Gen said "I want you to
                                stay behind to help Gen Forrest guard my rear
                                till we cross the Tennessee." After passing Col
                                Heiskell, Gen Hood speaking to the men said,
                                "Boys the cards were fairly dealt at Nashville
                                and Thomas beat the game." James Stevenson of Co
                                E 19th standing right under the Gen replied "Yes
                                Gen but the cards were d--d badly suffledshuffled." We remained with Forrest during the
                                rest of the retreat. To say that we suffered on this campaign does not
                            express it. We had poor protection from the cold,
                            and the brave boys were almost worn out.Their frost bitten feet were swollen bruised and
                            bleeding as they marched over the frozen ground many of them more than half
                                        bear
                                    footed. This was certainly a sad condition for an
                            Army on the retreat pressed hard by a merciless foe.
                            We were just in that condidtion that a speedy
                            retreat was impossible.Richland Creek1864 Dec 24We were always ready and willing to fight when run
                            upon. As soon as Gen Hood moved out from Columbia with every thing
                            except the wounded in the hospitals; the Federal Gen
                            Hatch began shelling the town, endangering the women
                            and children and the defenseless wounded. Gen
                            Forrest under flag of truce asked Gen Hatch to
                            desist as he was causing suffering upon the innocent
                            and helpless. The shelling stopped.The enemy on the night of the 20th crossed the Duck
                            river on a pontoon some three miles above Columbia. Hood had moved out
                            with perfect confidence in his rear guard. Gen
                            Forrest ordered Walthall to fall back in the
                            direction of Pulaski. As
                            soon as the enemy had crossed the river with all his
                            forces, on the night of the 22d Walthall ordered Col
                            Fields with Maney's and Strahls brigades to skirmish
                            with him, while the other brigades formed line
                            across the Pulaski pike the enemy was too strong for
                            Fields and he fell back some twelve miles on the
                            pike and camped near Mrs Mitchel's in two miles of
                            Limmoille were we remained until the 24th. From this
                            camp Walthall advanced on the enemy toward Columbia, while Forrest
                            watched both flanks. Cuming
                            upon the enemy about three miles back quite an
                            engagement took place. Here we held the enemy for
                            four hours with heavy skirmishing.From this point, Walthrall fell back to Richland
                            Creek within six miles of Pulaski where he took position around a
                            mill. Here a considerable artillery duel was kept up
                            for some time, in which we dismounted two of the
                            enemy's guns, The infantry firing was quite heavy
                            reaching beyond that of a heavy skirmish.The enemy crossed the creek some distance above us
                            and aimed to gain our rear, but was met by Bufords
                            and part of Chalmers brigades of cavalry, and their
                            flank movement was checked, but not without
                            considerable fighting, in which engagement Gen
                            Bufford was wounded.Gen Forrest, at this time; was with Walthrall on the
                            Creek, when a Courier came dashing up, (and it was
                            difficult to tell which was the nearest out of wind
                            the horse or rider,) to Gen Forrest and said,
                            "General the enemy are now in our rear." To which
                            the Gen replied, "Well ding it, aint we in
                            theirs?"Pulaski1864 Dec 25thThat night at 8 oclock Walthrall retired to and took
                            position in the works that had hastenly been thrown
                            up around Pulaski.After destroying everything that could not be gotten
                            away including two trains of cars, at day light of
                            the 25 we fell back again, leaving Jackson's Cavalry
                            to hold the place as long as he could, and on his
                            retiring burn the bridge. Soon after leaving Pulaski we left the main
                            pike and encountered roads almost impassible. The
                            rains, the freezing and thawing made the ground so
                            soft that our Artillery and ordinance wagons moved
                            slowly and with great difficulty. X Bottom Page 260 at X - So much so
                                that several ordinance wagons were left in an
                                old field through which we passed after we left
                                    Pulaski on this
                                retreat. As Strahl's brigade halted for a moment
                                a courier dashed up with this order from Gen
                                Forrest, "Burn them wagons." Col Heiskell had
                                "them wagons burned" before the enemy reached
                                them. Wilson still pressing us closely
                            and with vigor. Although the main body of the army
                            and army trains had several days the start of the
                            rear guard from Columbia, we began now coming up with straggling
                            wagons. Not wishing to loose these, we kept back
                            with them and were there by delayed, giving the
                            enemy time to keep up with their Artillery.Anthony Hills1864 Dec 25thEarly in the morning of the 25th Gen Forrest ordered
                            Walthrall to form on  Anthony's Hill which
                            was about five or six miles from Pulaski and hold the enemy in check
                            until our wagon train could get beyond their reach
                            and well on towards the river. The ground on
                            Anthony's hill was so broken and the woods so dense
                            that a small body of men could be easily hidden.
                            Walthrall formed his men so they were completely
                            concealed, with a brigade of cavalry on the right
                            and one on the left flank, and sent out a skirmish
                            line in front. This skirmish line the enemy attacked
                            vigerously and drove them in following close upon
                            them, little dreaming there was a line lying in wait
                            for time.As soon as the enemy reached Walthrall's line he
                            opened fire upon them from his hidden place with his
                            infantry and one battery which also was concealed;
                            pouring into them such an effective fire they could
                            not stand and retired in confusion. Our men pushed
                            them closely capturing a number of prisners and horses an two pieces of
                            Artillery horses & all. They also lost several in killed and
                            wounded.As dark came on Walthrall again fell back, marching
                            until midnight when he reached Sugar Creek and
                            camped for the remainder of the night having fought one battle
                                    & marched twenty five miles that
                                    day.For page 261 - at botom * =
                                This incident we call to mind of that nights
                                march. The old 19th had several times asked Col.
                                Heiskell to mount them & join the cavalry.
                                As we approached Sugar Creek 11 oclock at night,
                                sleeting - raining and sloppy, the poor fellows
                                were silent & all still save the splash of
                                their half shod feet in that December night's
                                slush. The silence darkness & the gloom felt
                                oppressive. Col Heiskell called out "Boys how do
                                you like the cavalry"- Several replied- "Ah Col
                                this is not regular cavalry. And then some one
                                holloed out "I think this has been pretty d--d
                                regular for the last 48 months." So when we
                                reached Sugar Creek the foot cavalry waded it.
                                The ice cold water coming up under their arm
                                pits.It seemed that the nearer we came to the river the
                            more vigerously we were pressed by the enemy as if
                            they were determined on bagging their game before it
                            could escape. Again we ran upon our wagons, several
                            of which were loaded with ammunition.Apart of the teams had been taken to assist in
                            hurrying up the pontoon wagons. Before the day of
                            the 26th the wagons were pushed on as rapidly as
                            possible.Sugar Creek1864 Dec 26thSugar Creek.Walthrall put Reynolds' and Field's brigades between
                            the two crossings of the creek. Palmer's and
                            Featherstone's brigade on the south side of the
                            crossings in a strong position. The "Old 19th" being
                            in Fields brigade was between the two crossings. The
                            fog this morning was so dense, you could discern an
                            object only a short distance from you, which enabled
                            our two brigades to conceal them selves.They sent forward a small squad as pickets, a short
                            distance. Wilson's Cavalry was the vanguard of the
                            enemy and when they came upon our pickets they
                            dismounted and commenced skirmishing. The small
                            picket force fell back quickly to our main line, the
                            enemy come charging after them. But they raning upon a much
                            larger force than they expecting and being met by such a terrible fire
                            from Ambush turned and fled. Reynolds and Fields
                            followed in hot pursuit and the creek being in the
                            way of the enemy, our boys captured nearly all the
                            horses of one regiment, and a good many prisners.
                            Our Cavalry pursued them for some distance Near bottom page 262=, Col
                                Heiskell often said that this was the most
                                striking spactacle he witnessed during the whole
                                war. Here came the host of Federals flushed with
                                victory - in all the pomp and circumstances of
                                glorious war. There stood the battered, scarred
                                & hungry worn remnants of eight brigades, no
                                one of which had over one hundred & twenty
                                five men in it then; (Strahl's had only 112 men)
                                and yet when the command "charge" was given, as
                                one man the sprang at the on coming foe, &
                                with the rebel yell ringing loud above the din
                                of battle they swept the finely equipped Federal
                                force from the field.This attack was met by such an unexpected and
                            powerful resistance that it seemed to knock all the enthusiasms out of
                            our pursuers, and they let us alone.From this on they hung on our rear at a safe distance
                            and we moved and halted at our leisure. Resuming the
                            march we camped that night within twenty miles of
                            the river.Shoal Creek1864 Dec 28thThe next morning we continued our march to Shoal
                            Creek which we reached and crossed by 2 oclock
                            in the evening.Here Walthrall formed line again, while the cavalry
                            all moved on towards the river. After midnight of
                            the 28th Gen Walthrall issued the following
                            orderHeadquarters of the infantry forces of the rear
                                guardDecember 28th 2.oclock A.M.Circular: Featherston's brigade will move
                                promptly at once, without further orders across
                                the bridge; to be followed by Fields and then
                                Palmer. Gen Reynolds will withdraw his command
                                from the Shoal Creek in time to reach the main
                                line by daylight, leaving a skirmish line behind
                                for half an hour. Ector's brigade will cover the
                                road until the whole command has passed, then he
                                will follow, leaving a skirmish line until the
                                rear of his brigade is on the bridge. Move with
                                promptness and in good order.By command of Maj Gen WalthrallE.D. Clark
                                Asst Adj. Gen.So at 3 oclock in the morning of December 28th we
                            moved out from Shoal Creek, excepting Reynolds
                            brigade which remained as guard and picket until
                            nearly day light, when he moved out quickly.Walthrall moved on with his other three divisions and
                            occupied the works covering the pontoon bridgeRest, Over the river1864 Dec 28thThe pontoon spaned the Mussel Shoals at Bainbridge
                            where the water seemed to be running forty or fifty
                            miles an hour. The main Army with its trains, the
                            Artillery and the Cavalry having crossed and out of
                            the way, our rear guard began to cross early in the
                            morning.Featherston first, Fields next, then Palmer, and
                            lastly Reynolds. Then Hood's Army was again South of
                            the Tennessee river. And only then did we feel
                            relieved from the constant pressure of an
                            unrelenting foe."We crossed over the riverAnd rested under the shade of the trees."Jordon Nathan Co "C" Columbia Wounded and CapturedOne man of the 19th killed at Sugar Creek.Chapter XXIII.Results and IncidentsIt was just forty three days from the time Hood
                            crossed the river at Florence with his jubilant army
                            on his way into Tennessee, until he recrossed at
                            Bainbridge with but a fragment of his former force.
                            The forty three days were sad ones to Hood and his
                            Army.In them are crouded the disastrous battle of Franklin
                            and the utter defeat and rout of his Army at
                            Nashville.As a result he lost one Maj. Gen killed, for Maj
                            Gens. wounded, vis= Cleburne killed, Brown, Johnson,
                            Lee, and Bufford wounded; and five Brigades killed,
                            Granberry, Carter, Strahl, Gist, and Adams. There
                            were nine Brigades wounded vis Govan, Sears,
                            Jackson, Gordon, Deas, Cockrell, Duasels, Scott and
                            Managault. Of these Gens Johnson, Jackson, Deas,
                            Gordon, Smith & Sears, were captured. (see page 223)He lost nearly one half of his regimental officers,
                            and about thirty (30) percent of his men. Nearly one
                            half of his ordinance trains, and nearly all of his
                            Artillery.As to the suffering of the men, none but those who
                            were there can from an adequate conception of what
                            the men underwent in this campaign, and with what
                            fortitude they bore up under it all. There were many
                            phases in the Soldiers life in this campaign, amid
                            its hardships and toils and suffering that were
                            amusing, and the many cunning and adroit ways, no
                            matter if they were mean, the boys used in getting
                            what they wanted. We mention one to show what they
                            will doSalt & Sargum1864 Dec 28thClabe Perry of Co "E" with Lieut J. Waller leaving
                                Pulaski one evening
                            straggled off the main road the army was on, and
                            traveled that evening to suit themselves.As they were passing a log cabin, Clabe espied some
                            leaf tobacco hanging in the chimney corner. Going up
                            to the house they found no one there but an old
                            woman. During these times provisions, especially
                            Salt, Coffee and Sugar were very scarce, and who
                            were lucky enough to have these luxuries kept them
                            hid, and if they should be called for they were out
                            and had been for months, which was indeed the truth
                            in the majority of instances. The old Lady had one
                            son of ten summers, who had then gone to mill with a
                                last grist of
                            corn, and would be back soon. Clabe purchast some of the tobacco, and then
                            inqueried for Sargum. She said she had some in the
                            smoke house. The Lieut and the Old Lady went around
                            into the Smokehouse for the Sargum, and Clabe
                            slipped into the house, and in his prowling found
                            the bed tick a small sack of salt and a pair of
                            yellow Jones pants, evidently belonged to the boy.
                            Putting these under his blanket, he hastened out to
                            where the old woman and the Lieutenant were
                            measuring Sargum. Clabe said "Madam we have no money
                            but will pay you for your Sargum in salt, as we have
                            more than we want to carry.""La! Me" said the old woman, "That is just what I
                            want, I have not had any salt for weeks." So Clabe
                            paid the Old Woman for the sargum, with her own
                            salt.They wanted meal, and inquired the way to the
                            mill.So they started out
                            with the expectation of meeting her son. Which they
                            did. Clebe wanted to buy some of the meal but the
                            boy refused, Clabe begged and finally told him that he had a pair of pants sent him from home
                            that were too small which he would give him for a
                            little meal. They traded and when Clabe took out the
                            pants the boy said, "I have a pair at home just like
                            them," "So you may," said Clabe, "and two pairs wont
                            hurt you, as you see these are good ones." So Clabe
                            paid the boy for the meal with his own pants.The last Hominy1864 Dec 28thClabe Perry was a daisy; whisky and tobacco he would
                            have, if any where in the country. When in camp he
                            would kill any rooster that dared to disturb and
                            awake his colonel by crowing and in battle would stand
                                    & shoot with the bravest. Late one evening about dark before we
                            reached the river our command halted for the night.
                            Two of the boys and myself went further on about
                            half mile seeking shelter, for it was bitter cold.
                            We had plenty of raw bacon and crackers, and were
                            not hunting anythign to eat, only a shelter.We came to a house where were but four persons, the
                            mother and three children the youngest perhaps four
                            years old. We asked for shelter for the night, she
                            granted our request. We found the Mother cooking lye
                            hominy, the only thing an all she had in the way of
                            provisions. The night was dark and gloomy & the
                            bright light from the old fire place looked cheerful
                            to us; but it revealed the sorrowful expression on
                            the care worn face of the mother, as she prepared
                            the last morsel of food for her self and children,
                            not knowing whence the next would come, the hominy
                            was soon done, and 1864 Dec 28th put upon the table. We all three emptyed our
                            haversacks of crackers and bacon on the table. We
                            were invited to eat with them but refused. We lay
                            down on the floor and slet more soundly and
                            comfortable than for many nights gone by. We fell in
                            with our command next morning. Leaving all our
                            rations with the mother and children we bid them
                            good by.There were other incidents we could mention, some
                            amusing and others sad, but these two are
                            sufficient.Chapter XXIV.TupeloHood after recrossing the river, moved on to Corinth
                            Miss. Here we rested a few days, and from here Hood
                            furloughed a great many of the men, those from
                            Middle Tennessee, Alabama, and Mississipi. Although
                            their furloughs were but for a few days, few of the
                            men ever returned to the army again. Our roll calls
                            were now soon over with, for these were only a few names on each company roll, and the Army
                            seemed but a Corporal's guard. From here we moved on
                            to Tupelo Miss, starting out as usual in a hard
                            pelting rain, and after a muddy tromp of three days
                            we reached Tupelo on the 13th day of January 1865.We expected to draw clothing at Corinth, but there
                            was none for us. Many without shoes - thin clothing
                            ragged and torn, pants hanging in threads at the
                            bottom. Some had only a piece of a coat, and the
                            crown of their hats all gone. The barefotted had sore and bleeding feet,
                            and each foot was loth to follow the other as they
                            moved.But amidst the ruin and wreck the years of toil and
                            battle had brought, the "Old 19th," what was left of
                            it, still had vitallity left to stand erect, and
                            when there were posts of danger to be filled, she
                            was always ready to respond, here am I send send me.
                            She possessed the true grit, the true type of
                            patriotism. The Old 19th Tennessee! We are proud of
                            her, proud of her record. Although with worn and
                            tattered uniform she walks wih a military step.West Point, Miss.1865 January 28thHere we drew clothing and rations, and after a few
                            days rest the men presented a new appearance. Here
                            Gen Hood turned over to Gen J.E. JohnsonJohnston what was left of his Army.The military career of the venturous and recklessly
                            brave Gen Hood was about ended.Gen Beauregard in speaking of Gen Hood just after he
                            had turned the command over to Gen Jonnson in regard
                            to the death of the Army of Tennessee, said "No one
                            seemed more keenly alive to the fact, and suffered
                            more from it than Gen Hood himself, and I had not
                            the heart to disgrace him by censure, or ordering
                            his removal." From the depth and fulness of the
                            heart we can but say poor Hood, you have our
                            sympathies; our respects & love.Gen Joseph E. JohnsonJohnston takes command of the Army again, but it was
                            not the Army he turned over to Hood before reaching
                                Atlanta.It had lost the bloom and vigor of its former self.
                            It was now composed of only about 18,500 infantry
                            2,300 Cavalry. The Artillery Hood had turned over to
                            Gen Thomas. Soon the men were in a condition to move
                            again. JohnsonJohnston began sending them away by detachments to
                            intercept and combat with Sherman again, who was some where in
                            North Carolina.Cheatham was the last to move, this we did leaving
                            the 25th of January, marching to West Point Miss,
                            which we reached on the 28th. We remained here three
                            days and fared sumptuously each day on hog and
                            Hominy and had plenty to spare.Columbus.1865 Feb 14thFrom here we took the cars for Meredian, where we
                            moved out into a swamp to camp. The first night in
                            camp the rain flooded us, so much so that we were forced to move out of the water. We
                            left Meredian for Demopolis AlaAlabama over an exceedingly rough road. The train
                            made only Six miles an hour. The boys would climb
                            down off the cars and run out to a house a hundred
                            yards or more a way, return, catch up with the train
                            and climb on again. Passing on through Demopolis Feb
                            13th we went on to Selma were we rested one day, and
                            took boat for Montgomery arriving at 10 AM and at
                            4PM we started for Columbus GaGeorgia with a good many of the boys on a big
                            drunk Middle page 271= Zach
                                Smith, whose bravery at Franklin had been
                                mentioned, stole a mule at Selma & put it on
                                the boat & took it with the command to
                                Montgomery, where he sold it for $1,6000 in
                                Confederate money and with this money, Zach took
                                all of the regiment who would go on a big
                                tare. At Columbus the Ladies gave us a
                            hearty welcome and spread before us refreshments,
                            something that had not been done for a long
                            time.Leaving here we moved out for Macon GaGeorgia, which we reached the 17th February,
                            thence on to Milledgville the Captital of the state.
                            From Milledgeville we had to march to Mayfield,
                            where we again took the cars for Augusta, which we
                            passed through after dark, leaving the cars. We
                            passed on out and across the river where we camped,
                            and remained all day of the 20th.Leaving here we directed our way a foot to Newberry
                            S.C. where formed junction with the rest of the Army
                            that left us in Mississippi. While we were in Macon
                            Lieut W.B. Miller and Sergeant James Havely of Co
                            "K" got permission to remain there for two days, and
                            to regain their command they had to travel earlier
                            and later than the Army. On their way they passed
                            through Millidgville before sun down, and on out
                            from the city some four miles when night over took
                            them. They halted at a fine country residence, which
                            they learned afterward was called Sun
                            Shine.Sun Shine.1865 Feb 26thThey called and asked for permission to remain
                            overnight which was cheerfully granted and they were warmly received.They entered the hall, and deposited their baggage,
                            which consisted of a sword, gun and accoutrements,
                            canteens, and haversacks partly filled with meal and
                            in each a small piece of fat bacon, in the hall
                            behind the door.They were taken into the sitting room which was
                            nicely furnished, indeed all the surroundings showed
                            signs of thrift, elegance and culture.They were entertained by a fine stately looking and
                            dignified old gentleman whose head was white from
                            the frost of many winters, but whose intilectintellect seemed to be at its zenith. Soon an other
                            gentleman came in tall portly and of commanding
                            appearance, whose physiognomy portrayed a gigantic
                            mind. In fact the two soldiers were impressed with
                            the idea that the whole house was filled with an
                            atmosphere of composure and happiness that they had
                            not seen elsewhere.It seemed to them that the ravages of war had never
                            reached this home, and that heaven had so marked it,
                            that the hand of the destroyer had passed it by, and
                            sought its victims in other homes. When bed time
                            came the two in uniform learned who their hosts
                            were. The elder of the two said to the other one,
                            "George you must act as high Priest to night." Then
                            Bishop Pierce took the bible and led in family
                            devotion. They wer at the home of Bishop Pierce and
                            with him was his Father Dr. Lovic Pierce.That night while they slept, Mrs. Pierce took their
                            haver sacks and emptied them of their meal and
                            bacon, and put them back well filled with ham,
                            biscuit, preserves and pickles. The next morning
                            rising early the two soldies left without disturbing
                            the family, and on examining their haver sacks, were
                            made glad, and went on their way rejoicing, feeling
                            that it was good to tarry, if but a night, with the
                            people of God.Since our entrance into South Carolina, we marched
                            for several days in an almost incessant rain,
                            without a single ray of sun shine.Chester1865 March 6thAll of the streams on the way were swollen, and nearly all of
                            which we had to wade. We
                            reachedChesterSouth Carolina March the 6th
                            where we rested several days.While here two of the regiment and the writer event
                            out two miles to a country residence to get some
                            washing done. We had only one shirt each, we had
                            that on it dirty. We had none to put on whiles these
                            were being washed. We went to the Negro Cabins in
                            the rear part of the yard, where three old negro
                            women were washing and said, "Aunty we want our
                            shirts washed and have no others to put on while
                            this is being done." "La bless you child" said Aunty
                            "dont care for that, jes pull em off and sit down we
                            will wash them and hurry too." During the
                            conversation with old Aunty, we found that same
                            feeling of trust and confidence existed here as at
                            home. They seemed as solicitous for their young
                            masters who were in the Confederate Army, and for
                            their return home as any member of the house hold,
                            for as they said we raised young master from baby
                            hood. They experienced fears of never seeing them
                            again. With them Slavery had not been abolished.
                            They knew no other home but this one, and loved no
                            other. To them it was their paridise, and their
                            surroundings were sacred to them. They were
                            happy.Typical Mammie1865 March 7thIn the days of slavery there were in almost every
                            family trusted servants who had been raised from
                            child hood to do special service in the house hold
                            of their masters, and between them and not only
                            their masters, but the entire household, especially
                            the white children, there existed a strong feeling
                            of natural affection. And there were in almost every
                            family those among the number of slaves whom the
                            childen called Mammie aged black women
                            into whose care and keeping were placed the
                            children. Their authority was almost equal to that
                            of the mother, and for them the children entertained
                            almost the tender love they did for their own
                            mother. to this black mammie the children carried
                            their grievances, into her ears their childish
                            stories told. And at any time when the children
                            wanted anything they knew to whom to go, for they
                            were never turned away empty.And their childish hearts were often made glad 1865 March
                                        7th by a kiss from black mammie's lips. No doubt
                            there are many now, who from the depth of their
                            heart, pray the blessings of God upon their old
                            black mammies, who may be living."Aunt Nancy"--A Typical "Mammie."Illustration of a black female
                                slave.Many of the negro men were faithful during the war.
                            And when the war had ended were loth to give up the
                            home that had sheltered, fed and cared four them so
                            long, & still remained and worked on, on the old
                            plantation. We knew some who after our Southern
                            homes were occupied by the Federal bayonets, where
                            the boys fom the Confederate Army slipped in home,
                            would hide them, care for them by carrying them
                            provisions, and every comfort, and would lead lead
                            them out safely through the Federal pickets when
                            they returned to the Army. These were not merely
                            isolated cases, but a few among the thousands
                            through out the South.Shirtless Guests1865 March 9thAll these emphatically gave the lie to the caharges
                            sent out through the Northern press of the brutal
                            treatment of Southern Slaves. Pardon us for the
                            digression from our shirt washing. Having given Old
                            Aunty our shirts, we tried to button up our coats so
                            no one could see that we were minus the under garment, but our
                            coats did not meet the emergency by a good deal we could fasten only one button and that at the
                            top. One of the Generals and all his staff had their
                            headquarters here. It so happens that we had dropped in near noon, for we had not
                            been there long until we hear dinner announced. As
                            soon as all the officers were through eating Mrs.
                            Palmer (It was her home we were at about one mile
                            out from Chester) sent for us to come and take
                            dinner. We returned thanks for kindness and excused
                            ourselves. But no excuse would she take, and coming
                            her self she said, "I see you have on no shirts, but
                            no one shall come into the dining room but myself, I will wait on you."Her youngest Daught had given us the first invitation
                            and at once appreciated our excuse. Of course she
                            reported to the rest of the family, and Mrs. Palmer
                            agreed to keep out all the young ladies. We had but
                            cleverly seated ourselves when three young Ladies
                            filed into the room and helped our plates, and then
                            sat down opposite to us and ate with us. The
                            kindness and affableness of the young Ladies
                            together with that of the Mother soon wore off our
                            embarrassment, and we enjoyed our dinner as we had
                            not for some time.Chapter XXV.Faithful."Tell what else you please, you slanderers of my
                                native SouthBut tell no longer that the fair maids and
                                matronsOf Southern homes were idle, vain fancy
                                flowers,Cultured by slaves, strangers to work, or solid
                                worth.In all our hearts, in farmers houses and
                                planter's palacesOut of which teemed the brave Southern
                                soldiersWorked the live-long day the soldier's Sister,
                                the Soldier's wife,The brave boy's mother, and the maid he
                                loved,To cloth and feed the loved ones on the tented
                                fields."The thought of the loved at home helped the Southern
                            soldier over many a hard place. They were not urged
                            forward by the men feeling of the romantic. But
                            deeper laid amid the hardships and dangers of a
                            Soldier's life, the care and burden of home and
                            loved ones.We left Chester at noon of the 10th on the cars and passed through Charlotte NC to Salisbury
                            which we reached an hour by sun the next morning.
                            Here we remained one week. The next day after our
                            arrival was Sunday. We went to church the first
                            opportunity we had had for some time. At the service
                            in the morning the Negros occupied the gallery, and
                            at night they held forth in the lower pues. The
                            concluded their services by singing, "I'm going home
                            to die no more," during which they were all in a
                            perfect fervor going around, - shaking each others
                            hands, and keeping time by the tramp of their feet.
                            While we were here the rain was almost continuous.
                            The streets, and especially around the depot were
                            almost impassible on account of mud."I am the Conductor.1865 March 12thWe remained here longer than expected, for we were
                            needed in front of Sherman. We began to move on Saturday by
                            rail, and every thing seemed to be delayed, the
                            officers as well as men anxious to be away. None
                            more than Gen Cheatham, who began to get into a
                            great bluster. One train had pulled out, an other was ready with the troops on board the cars,
                                which was
                            standing on the track. Our brigade was waiting for
                            its train, but could not get on until this one was
                            out of the way. Gen Cheatham wanted this train to
                            move, and called out, "Where is the conductor for
                            this train?"The conducture all dressed up in his dudish uniform
                            was standing in two or three steps of Gen Cheatham,
                            on the curbing and said "I am the conductor.""Why dont you move out with your train, what are you
                            waiting on" said Cheatham. The conductor not knowing
                            who Cheatham was replied, "I am running that part of
                            the business sir." He had not more than finished his
                            remark when Cheatham let him feel the full weight of
                            his fist and landed him full length out in the mud.
                            It is needless to say the conductor was up and had
                            his train moving before he took time to shake of the
                            mud.We pulled out late Saturday evening, and left the
                            cars at Smithfield late Sunday night. Monday morning
                            early we started for the front, and moved out twenty
                            miles, where we again began to hear the old familiar
                            sound of cannon, in the vicinity of Bentonville.Bentonville1865 March 21stWe hurried on and early Tuesday evening we reached
                            the scene of action just in time to prevent the
                            coming of a column of the enemy through a gap in our
                            line of battle between the right and left wings of
                            the army.Here our brigade and regiment had its first encounter
                            with the enemy on the new field, and since we had
                            crossed the Tennessee river on our return from
                            Nashville.We drove them back, and completed the broken line.
                            Gen Hardee and part of Johnson's men had been hotly
                            engaged with the enemy all the morning. There was
                            considerable skirmishing all that evening. The next
                            morning Sherman attempted
                            to flank Hardee's left when Cheatham met them,
                            holding them in check against considerable odds in
                            numbers. As we moved to Hardee's left we passed
                            Johnson's quarters in the smoky pines and all the
                            boys as they passed took of their hats and gave him
                            loud hearty cheers.The fighting this morning all along the line was
                            quite heavy, and at different points on the line the enemy made repeated attempts to breake it but
                            failed every time.In one of these attacks Gen Hardee lost a son. We
                            never fought under such circumstances before. The
                            whole woods were filled with smoke black and sooty,
                                1865 March
                                        23d we could scarcely see. It filled not only our eyes but our mouths. We
                            were in a turpentine country, the trees all peeled
                            and covered with resin. It seemed about every
                            fiftieth tree was on fire, and in adition to these were two turpentine
                            distilleries, that were burning and barralls of
                            rosin . Greate
                            black volumes of smoke filled all the woods
                            rendering it almost intollerable.JohnsonJohnston had but a fragment of his once magnificent
                            army, and compared with Shermans it was not much more than a Corporal's guard.
                            Our men were almost worn out, having lost so much to
                            sleep; but being so used to the roar of musketry and
                            artillery, on the fields of Bentonville, when not actually engaged, they would lie down and sleep, while the shells
                            burst some times almost over them. The music of
                            battle seemed to lull to sleep. The Confederate
                            soldier was generous ever to his foes, and when they
                            were in our hands were ready to help in time of
                            trouble. On the battle field of Bentonville the Federal line had been
                            repulsed and their dead and wounded were left on the
                            field, and as our men moved over the field, a
                            Confederate had a canteed partly filled with
                            whiskey, and having passed a Federal lying on the
                            field, with a leg nearly torn off by a shell,
                            stopped and lifting the wounded soldier in blue up
                            with his head leaning on his arm, gave him several
                            good swallows of whiskey. After he had drank the
                            Federal soldier looked up into the face of his (can
                            I say?) friend? and said, "Thank God, Johnnie it may
                            come around some day that I can help you and I shall
                            never forget this drink of whiskey."That night JohnsonJohnston fell back across Mill Creek about two
                            miles, where we remained about three days, when he
                            moved with three miles of Smithfield, where we
                            remained several days waiting on and watching the
                            movements of Sherman.
                            This was verily the last battle of the war.On our way through South and North Carolinas good
                            many of our men left us for their homes, especially
                            North and South Carolinians and Tennesseeans. We are
                            sorry to say they left us. Their patriatism had burned out and left only
                            blackened and chared hope.While their help would not have amounted to very
                            much, their presence and willingness to assist would
                            have added greatly in cheering the rest of us on, in
                            bearing the brunt of battle and toil of the
                            campaign.We felt that the last struggle was on, and whe who
                            had been faithful till now could not desert the
                            dying Confederacy in her last gasp.Our Chaplains during all these days of marching and
                            fighting since we left Palmeta Ga, had been vigilant
                            in watching the enemy of souls, had fought him every
                            opportunity offered. Now for a few days our Chaplain
                            Rev R.W. Norton an Rev Bennet of the 12th Tenn
                            preached nearly every day.Roll of regiments1865 April 1stApril the 1st Gen JohnsonJohnston ordered a consolidation of regiments,
                            troops of each state to themselves. All the
                            Tennessee regiments formed one Corps under Gen
                            Hardee, one division under Gen Cheatham, and one
                            brigade under Gen Palmer. So small had the regiments
                            become that out of all the Tennessee regiments only
                            four were formed.These four represented the thirty seven, and was the
                            remnant of 37,000. The first regiment was composed
                            of the 1st 6th 8th 9th 16th 27th 28th and 34th Tenn
                            regiments under Col. Fields.The Second, composed of 11th 12th 13th 29th 47th 50th
                            51st 52nd and 154th Tenn regiments under Col
                            Price.The Fourth, composed of 2d 3d 10th 15th 18th 20th 23d
                            26th 32d 37th and 45th Tenn regiments, under Col
                            Searcy.The third composed of 4th 5th 19th 24th 31st 33d 35th
                            38th and 41st Tenn regiments under Col Tilman.The above organization
                                    however never in fact became an accomplished
                                    fact. The surrender was too near.The first company, composed of companies A, D, E, F,
                            K, and commanded by Capt Jake Waller.The second company,made of companies B, C, G, H, I,
                            and commanded by Capt Jake Kimbrough.There were on the roll rank and file only sixty four
                            men of the regiment, and this was commanded Col.
                            C.W. Heiskell and Maj. J.H. Hammer. Company "C" had
                            only three men Lieut W.D. Gannon, R.F. McPherson and
                            Wm R. Irwin.Where are all of the twelve hundred men who enlisted
                            in the regiment in 1861? If we go to the
                            battlefields of Barbersville, Fishing Creek, Shiloh,
                                Murfreesborough,
                            Chickamauga, Missionary Ridge, Atlanta Campaign, Franklin, Nashville
                            Campaign and Bentonville
                            we will get an answer for a great many of the
                            absentees. An on the many picket duties, there fell
                            from the deadly bullet of the videtts many who never
                            returned.Greensborough.1865 AprilWe left Smithfield April the 10th and on our march we
                            passed through Raleigh, Chappel Hill. There had
                            fallen and were still falling a great deal of rain,
                            and all the streams were full, and there being no
                            bridges we had to wade and swim all of them. When we
                            came to Cape fear river it was much swollen and was
                            rising. There was no way of crossing but to swim.
                            The men tried to form the muskey's chain by holding
                            each other's hand , but the current was to strong
                            and broke their hold. When my time came to try the
                            water, we gave our watch to Col Heiskell to keep it
                            out of the water, as it was up under my arms and
                            swift. We went in and halted, debated in our mind
                            whether to go on or return. Just then Gen Cheatham
                            came riding in and as he passed us, we caught hold
                            of his horse's tail and landed safely on the other
                            side. Finally all were over, and midnight found us
                            standing around our camp fires drying our
                            selves.The next day we moved out and camped with\in 13 miles
                            of Greensborough, with Sherman hovering close around us.On the 18th we received the news of Lee's surrender
                            to Grant. Also we were told an Armistis of five days
                            had been agreed upon between JohnsonJohnston and Sherman.
                            The news of Lee's surrender and of JohnsonJohnston's negotiations produced a feeling of
                            sadness through out our camps. Although we were
                            anxious for the war to end, yet we were hardly
                            prepared for a surrender.The Surrender1865 April 26thWe had not calculated, and looked into the depths of
                            a surrender, the giving up as lost, that for which
                            we had fought so long and for which so many had
                            given their lives was indeed hard and the idea
                            grated like harsh thunder on our nerves.On the morning of the 24th the armistis was out, and
                            we were told at noon hostilities would be
                            resumed.Orders were given to get ready to move at once, which
                            we did, andwe went into camp within three miles of
                            Greensboro where we drew rations and clothing. JohnsonJohnston's headquarters were in a small log cabin not far from Durham,
                            from which place he sent a message under flag of
                            truce to Gen Sherman for
                            a meeting to arrange for a surrender. The had two
                            meetings in this farmhous, JohnsonJohnston's headquarters about five or six miles
                            from Durham. Here an agreement was reached on April 26th 1865JohnsonJohnston surrendered the Army of Tennessee to Gen
                                Sherman, and the war
                            was at an end. As soon as the surrender was
                            announced excitement ran high, and all the first
                            night the men moved around in great unrestWHERE JOHNSON SURRENDERED.Illustration of soldiers near a barn and
                                trees.But little sleeping was done, and the only topic
                            discussed during the night was the surrender.The men began slipping out to leave for home, and in
                            order to quiet the unrest feeling of the men JohnsonJohnston ordered daily drill and inspection. This
                            gave the men something to do, and to think of. We
                            remained here until the payrolls were made out and
                            complete arrangements were made for our return
                            home.The last Order.1865 May 2dJohnsonJohnston made better terms with Sherman, than Lee did with Grant. Gen
                                Sherman had great
                            regards and feeling for Gen JohnsonJohnston. Sherman knew JohnsonJohnston well, knew he was an expert in war.In the long and tedious campaign from Dalton to Atlanta, Sherman said he never caught JohnsonJohnston napping or off his guard. He never made a
                            secret move but JohnsonJohnston detected it and was ready to meet it.After the surrender JohnsonJohnston kept control of the men untill the army
                            crumbled away by divisions and brigades and
                            regiments, each under its respective officers. They
                            dropped out here and there, at their respective
                            houses until the last vestage of a once magnificent
                            army was gone for ever.The last Order.We can never forget Johson's farewell order to his
                            men. The last order he ever gave wasNear Greensborough NC.May 2d 1865General Order No 22P 1st - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -P 2d You will return home with the admiration of
                                our people, won by the courage and noble
                                devotion you have displayed in this long war. I
                                shall always remember with pride the loyal
                                support and generous confidence you have given
                                me. I now part with you with deep regret and bid
                                you farewell, with feelings of cordial
                                friendship and with earnest wishes that you may
                                have here after all the prosperity and happiness
                                to be found in this world. Joseph E. JohnsonJohnston Gen. Kincaid Falkner A A GenCheatham's last review1865 May 7thAfter receiving our payrolls from Gen Sherman, we bade Gen JohnsonJohnston, as our general, an eternal farewell.Leaving Greensborough May the
                                4th we moved out in regular order for
                            Salisbury. On our way we passed through Thomasville
                            and the Ladies (God bless them) waved the
                            Confederate flag from the windows of the academy,
                            but they received only a faint responce.We felt sad. We were put part of the funeral
                            procession going gome from the burial of the dead
                            Confederacy.At Salisbury the Army disentegrated. After drawing of
                            rations and transportation had been provided, the
                            soldiers separated, the greater part of them going
                            South. All the Tennesseeans went north by way of
                            Ashville. When the Tennesseeans had passed out
                            beyond Salisbury they halted and formed line as in
                            review. Then Gen Cheatham came down the line shaking
                            the hand of every soldier, not one missed, while the
                            great big tears rolled down his cheeks. There was
                            not one whose eyes were not suffused with tears,
                            they were fountains of tears. As the generous and
                            brave General, whom we all loved shook our hands,
                            just now and then could he get out the word good by.
                            The great upheaval of his loving sympathetic heart
                            choked him as he walked down his line for the last
                            review of his faithful men. These tears told plainly
                            the depth of feeling in his great big heart for "His
                            boys" he loved and whom he led in many a hard fought
                            battle. Will any one who was present ever forget it?
                            No, never.While there were a good many who left us on our way
                            through the Carolinas, and others who were
                            furloughed who were at Corinth Miss, who had never returned,
                            yet these were thousands who would liked to have been at home, but would not sever their sacred
                            relations with the Army, and leave a faithful few to
                            fight the battle through alone.On our journey home.1865 May 7thOn the 7th of May all
                            we Tennesseans picked ourselves up left Salisbury
                            and all the exciting and smokey battle scenes of
                            North Carolina behind and started out On our
                            journey home.On the ninth we passed through Morganton, late in the
                            evening and bivouaced for the night two miles
                            beyond. The next morning we moved out for Ashville
                            through which we passed on the 13th and camped a
                            short distance below on the French broad river for
                            the night. We reached Greenville Tenn May the 15th where we
                            remained a few days. The nearer home we got now, the
                            more anxious the boys seemed to be there.While at Greenville the boys were restless, and
                            seemed lost, we were waiting for transportation.
                            Here was an other separation of the boys. A part
                            took the East bound train for Bristol and
                            intermediate points, while the greater number
                            continued westward, dropping off here and there on
                            the way as they reached their respective homes. We
                            reached our home on the 18th of May.And hung our hat and old gray coat,In the closet, on the wall;No more to signal, "Fall in boys."Nor arouse them by the "Fife's shrill call.Go down to death.1865 May 19thMy home was on Roseberry Creek near the rail road,
                            spanning the creek was a high bridge. The next
                            morning we repaired to the railroad to see some of
                            the men go by, who were waiting for trains when we
                            left Greenville. The train was just half way over
                            the bridebridge, when the trucks of one car broke loose a
                            threw three cars full of soldiers down an embankment
                            thirty feet. Twelve Confederates were killed out
                            right, an several badly hurt.To day twelve Confederate soliders ended their
                            journey of life before reaching home & sleep on
                            the banks of Roseberry Creek at my old home. Sad,
                            and from a human stand point, hard, that these young
                            a noble brave boys, who had gone through the war,
                            should, just as they were about the "Step Stone" of
                            the dearest spot on earth to them, go down in this
                            horrible wreck.Yes, the war is over. And through those long eventful
                            four years of dangers, hard ships and exposures, the
                            "Old 19th Tenn" bravely fought her way, bore her
                            part in the joys and sorrows of camp life, and
                            although but a few were left, she came out of the
                            struggle as true and as noble a regiment as was ever mustered on
                            the field of battle. Out of the twelve hundred at
                            the beginning only Sixty four answered to the last
                            roll call. When beyond the gathering gloom of life's
                            fading years, the last "Rebel Soldier" shall have
                            been laid away in the quiet resting place of the
                            dead; succeeding generations will read with pride
                            the heroism of the Old 19th Tennessee Confederate
                            Veterons of the long ago.The war is over.1865 May 19thAs the "Blue and the Gray" fell side by side on the many gory fields,
                            as they lie side by side in their final resting
                            places; so their names will be recorded side by side
                            in the annals of time and the same mantle of glory
                            will cover them all."The echoes long have died awayOf musket's ring and cannon's roarAnd ranks of bayonets no moreTell of the furious battle dayWhen the Northern Blue met Southern Gray.The black war cloud is over, pastAnd gallant men by thousands sleepThat slumber terrible and deepWhich undisturbed by aught shall lastTill Gabriel blows his trumpet blast.""Twill live in song and story, Though its
                                folds are in the dust."Confederate battle-flag and
                                caption.Appendix.A general report of the 19th Tenn
                        regimentA general report of the 19th Tenn regiment at its
                        organization in 1861 - and at the close of the war in
                        1865. Showing the number of men and what became of them.
                        Commissioned officers are not included in this
                        report.CompaniesEnrollment at OrganizationRecruits since OrganizationDischargedTransferredDied in HospitalsKilled on FieldAbsent on FurloughIn PrisonsWounded Under head of
                                    wounded - some of the men were wounded
                                    several timesMissing There were
                                    several of our men from each company, at
                                    different times and places, who were lost in
                                    the engagements, and where not known whether
                                    they were killed or captured. They were
                                    never heard of afterwards and are included
                                    under "Missing" Many perhaps wrongfully.
                                    (some I know are. C.W.H.)Present at last Roll CallA97242261818141260175B10034275361813850176C1041524636206950202D1031129924184852207E1062428820194850208F934429536186840347G1104945133521101475278H94252811242031550207I11018296341851060147K10036295313058651671017280290742942007010055220564Total1297Report of Officers of the 19th Tenn
                        regimentReport of Officers of the 19th Tenn regiment from
                        the Reorganization at Corinth Mississippi May 10th
                        1862 to May 2nd 1856.Rank and Company.Name.Date of rank and how acquired.Vacancy Date and CauseName of SuccessorColF.M. WalkerMay 10th 62ElectedJuly 22d 64KilledLieut "B.F. Moore" " ""Nov 30th 63KilledC.W. HeiskellMajorR.A. Jarnagin" " ""Dec 31st 62KilledC.W. HeiskellSurgeonDr. J.E. Dulany" " "AppointmentAsst "Dr. J.E. Pyatte" " ""Octo 16th 1863ResignedDr. J.A. OwensChaplainRev. R.W. NortonDec 1863"Quarter MasterA.D. TaylorMay 10th 62"AdjutantW. Bowels""CompaniesJ.H. Kennedy""DiscontinuedACaptainD.A. Kennedy" " "Elected1st LieutF.M. Foust" " ""2d "Thomas Carney" " ""3d "N.P. Nail" " ""July 4th 1863ResignedR.P. JonesBCaptainJ.G. Deadrick" " ""Nov 20th 63PromotedT.M Brabson1st LieutJ.C. Hammer" " ""Jan 5th 63ResignedR.J. Tipton2d "R.J. Tipton" " ""Jan 10th 63PromotedT.M. Brabson3d "T.M. Brabson" " """ " ""A.C. SmithCCaptainW.C. Harvey" " ""Feb 25th 63ResignedA.W. Smith1st LieutM.J. Miles" " ""April 15th 64Dropped2d "A.W. Smith" " ""March 4th 63PromotedWm Miles3d "Wm Miles" " """ " ""W.D. GammonReport of Officers of the 19th Tenn regiment from
                        the Reorganization at Corinth Mississippi May 10th
                        1862 to May 2nd 1856.Date of Rank and how acquired.Vacancy Date and CauseName of SuccessorDate of Rank and how acquired.Nov 30th 63PromotedApril 14th 63PromotedNov 30th 63PromotedJ.G. DeadrickNov 30th 63PromotedOct 20th 63AptJuly 28th 63ElectedNov 30th 63Promoted & Oct 1st 64 made col of another
                                regiment.Jan 10th 63"Aug 1st 63KilledT.M BrabsonAug 1st 63Promoted" " """ " "PromotedA.C. Smith" " "ElectedApril 13th 63ElectedNov 25th 63"Wm AikinJan 1st 64"March 4th 63PromotedMarch 4th 63PromotedMarch 4th 63ElectedReport of Officers of the 19th Tenn regiment from
                        May 10th 1862 to May 2nd 1856. At reorganization at
                        Corinth MississippiRank and Company.Name.Date of rank and how acquired.Vacancy Date and CauseName of SuccessorDCaptainJ.G. FrazierMay 10th 62ElectedDec 31st 62KilledS.J.A. Frazier1st LieutS.J.A. Frazier" " ""June 1st 63PromotedR.W. Colvill2d "A.B. Hodge" " ""Aug 22d 63Resigned3d "Thos Cunningham" " """ 15th 63ResignedR.W. ColvilleECaptainW.W. Lackey" " ""Sept 19th 63KilledH.A. Waller1st LieutS. Abernathy" " ""Dec 31 62"H.A. Waller2d "H.A. Waller" " ""J.L. Waller3d "J.A. Waller" " ""O. EngledowFCaptainJ.H. Hanner" " ""Octo 1st 64Promt to Major1st LieutJ.M. Sims" " """ " "" Captain2d "J.F. Sharp" " ""3d "Robert Rhea" " ""June 17th 63KilledJ.F. TathamGCaptainA.L. Gannon" " ""Nov 62ResignedR.L. Blair1st LieutJ.A. Rhea" " ""April 6 "wounded & diedR.L. Blair2d "J.K.P. Gannon" " ""May 2d 63Promoted ResignedH.W. Hawk3d "H.W. Hawk" " """ " "PromotedJ.H. RheaHCaptainW.P.H. McDermatt" " ""July 22d 64KilledJ.H. Kimbrough1st LieutJ.H. Kimbrough" " ""Sept 20 64Promoted2d "F.S. Hale" " ""Nov 30th 64KilledReport of Officers of the 19th Tenn regiment from
                        May 10th 1862 to May 2nd 1856. At reorganization at
                        Corinth MississippiDate of Rank and how acquired.Vacancy Date and CauseName of SuccessorDate of Rank and how acquired.June 1st 63PromotedSept 19th 63CapturedAug 22d 63"" 15th 63ElectedSept 19th 63PromotedJan 5th 63"" " ""July 28th "ElectedJuly 28th =63ElectedMay 2d 63Promoted" " "Appointed" " "PromotedJuly 28 63"Sept 20 64PromotedReport of Officers of the 19th Tenn regiment from
                        May 10th 1862 to May 2nd 1856. At reorganization
                        Corinth MississippiRank and Company.Name.Date of rank and how acquired.Vacancy Date and CauseName of Successor3d LieutB.F. HoyleMay 10th 62ElectedOctober 14th 64ResignedICaptainJ.D. Lively" " ""1st LieutJ.E. Wooding" " ""2d "W.H. Lovejoy" " ""3d "William Hale" " ""KCaptainC.W. Heiskell" " ""April 14th 63PromotedJ.H. Huffmaster1st LieutJ.H. Huffmaster" " """ " "PromotedW.W. Etter2d "W.W. Etter" " """ " ""WB Miller3d "W.B. Miller" " """ " ""CC SpearsReport of Officers of the 19th Tenn regiment from
                        May 10th 1862 to May 2nd 1856. At reorganization
                        Corinth MississippiDate of Rank and how acquired.Vacancy Date and CauseName of SuccessorDate of Rank and how acquired.April 14 63Promoted" " """ " """ " ""CasualtiesReport giving the name and place of all who were
                            killed, wounded, captured or died, in the
                            regiment.NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedBurson James DBKnoxvilleDiedACumbeland GapDiedPowell Lieut RobertKBarbersville1Jordon GeorgeCCamp ZollicofferDiedCressell John"" "DiedGraham Geo W"Mill SpringsDiedHull Liet G.W.CMill SpringsDiedJordan John"" "DiedBarger W H"" "DiedDunlap WmAFishing Creek1Powers James"" "1Conley, Lieut JosephB" "1Carlton James"" "1Barker JohnC" "CapturedVernon Abner"" "1CapturedHarr Martin"" "1DiedBarker Lafayette"" "1CapturedDiedNamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedSmith JosephDFishing Creek1Cambell James"" "1Short RP."" "1Roller David"" "1DiedClemonson CharleyE" "1Vestal Billie"" "1Crozier RC"1Meroney J.N"" "1Carlton Lieut James TG" "1Cox Sam"" "1Middleton Sergt MH" "1Edgerman S.G."" "1Carmack IsacI" "1Welch Leander"" "1NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedWoodall JosiahIFishing Creek1Carmack CarrallK" "1Moneyham ---"" "1Johnson Andy G."" "1Webb JamesC" "1DiedGoodby JohnAShiloh1Powers James""1Rowe Louis""Bains John MB"1Willette Capt Zeb T.""1Wright Thomas1Webb Lieut BenC"11Vance Sam Sargt""1Eastling John""1White John""1Roberts Jack""1Piles John""1NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedO'Connor JohnCShiloh1Erps Adrin""1Johns B.J.""1Gray Al""1Gaby SamB"1King ERB" "1Harr RobertC"1Johnson B.J.S.""1Roberts Sam""1Roberts Isac""1Lyons Dan""1Pactal Sam"1Cooper Geo A"1Boufer Wm RD"1Bradford M""1Lincol John""1Newport J.F.M.""1Shaver J.A.""1Ward William""1Wallace Lieut Jams A""1Kenner M""1Cummings Col. D.H.--"1Fulkerson Maj Abe--"1NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedCurran ConnellyEShiloh1Bradley Sam""1Cunningham S.H.""1Leath T.J.""1Craig Al""1Nance R D""1Allen Geo W.F"1Forner Isac""1Sims Lieut J.M""1Hawk " H DG"1Wayler JacksonG1York CharleyG"1Rhea James A Lieut""1Chase J.T.""1Millhorn John""11Patterfield William""1Duncan Samuel""1Cheek E.W.H"1Buckner John""1Wilkins Lieut Doc""1footWalker Capt T.H.I"1Montague John R""1Brewer Clark""1NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedIShilohWolfenberg K.S.K"1Courtney M""1Etter CC""1Keeling Frank""1Carmack John""1Speck L.P.""11McKiney WilliamACorinthDiedDePugh --B"DiedGrey James""DiedHampton Wm""DiedSalts John""DiedFlenor PeteC"DiedRoberts Sam""DiedCook John""DiedNamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedFoust A.T.AVicksburgDiedWells SamuelB"DiedTravis BenjaminD"CapturedLoftis Richard""CapturedSeamore JohnG"DiedHamilton J.W.H"DiedMelton J.C.""DiedSexton S.H.""DiedTerry CharlesI"DiedShaw Charles""DiedNamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedNail Lieut N.P.ABatton Rouge1White EmitC"1DiedWright Thomas1Sims Lieut JMF1G"Flenor AndrewCMederianDiedJarnagin Maj. R.A.--Murfreesborough1Curran O.S.A"1McGhee J M""1Burkheart Wm""1Childress D M""1Aikin S.B.B"1Foster Samual""1Gaby Criss""1Hutson Andy""1NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedBrown Corp. ClabeBMurfreesborough1King E R""1Easterly John LC"1Keller Geo""1Erps Adrin""1Goba John""1DiedBurnette Frank""1Simth John""1Roller George"1Halley Wm"1Frazier Capt J.G.D"1Colville R.W.""1Bratber John""1Carson Sam""1Loftis W.D.""1McClarin Jasper""1Mitchel John""1Rhea William""1Rudd A.M."1NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedEarnest EdEMurfreesborough1Sloan J.H.""1Swan J.H.""1Abernatha Lieut S.B.""1Kincaid Creed""1Ellison A.J.F"1McKinsack J.R.""1Skelton H.H.""1Williams P.A.""1Sims Lieut J.M.""1Tipton J.A.G"1Barger J.R.""1Hamilton S. Rhea""1Bowls David K""1Rhea Wm R.""1Ford Martin""1Roller Wm""1Russel W.R.""1Ford Alford""1Cressell Van""1NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedHorn SimonGMurfreesborough1Helton James""1Hale Elija""1Archer WilliamH"1Stansberry Y A""1Smith Thos""1Strange James""1Basket John""1Grogan Wash""1Alexander Tom""1Kincaid Pat""1at rock wallI"1" ""6NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedFudge Charles J.KMurfreesborough1Marshall E.W.""1Miller Lieut W.B.""1Jackson E.H.""1Wax William""1Miller Charles""1Carmack John""1Hufmaster Sat.J.T.""11Heffin JMAMurfreesboro Pike1Cromwell MartinB" "DiedHumphries O M"" "DiedSmith Lieut A. WinC" "CapturedRhea Lieut R GF" "1Ford A.J.G" "1Beard Geo"" "DiedNamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedPayne J.J.GMurfreesboro PikDiedLanderback FelixK" "DiedWiderman J.P.AChattanoogaDiedTipton Lieut R.J.B"1on picketDeakin Charles""DiedMorgan AndrewC"DiedMartin HarrisF"DiedMicheals J.H""DiedStowe Richard""DiedStowe Richard""DiedRaney J.R.""DiedSharp F.E.""DiedSmith Ranson""DiedHashberger J DK"DiedNamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedHeiskell Maj C.W.--Chickamauga1McPherson FrankC" 1at home Oct 1895Holly Wm""CapturedCooper John""CapturedDiedWright Thomas1Jolly W.F.D"1Frazier Capt S.J.A.""1CapturedBarnette J W""1Brateber John""1Delonas Wm""1Kelley W.A.""1Mitchel John""1Renfro James""1Tresby John""1Lackey Capt Wm WE"1Traynor Mike""1Suan Wm""1NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedBlair Capt R LGChickamauga1Rhea John H""1Hawley Martin""1Russell W.R."" CapturedFrazier Clark"" CapturedHawk Lieut HD""1Sims Lieut HDF"1Grisham JamesH"1Cook William""1Chase HarrisonG"CaptDiedMcAndry J.W.K"1Looney Ben O""1Carmack John""1Johnson Andy G.""1Braden J. MAMission RidgeCapturedDiedMoore John (Col's Bro)"" "1Moore Lieut Col. B.F.--" "1Moore JamesB" "1Bowers James"" "1NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedSmith Capt WinCMission Ridge1Allison Bob"" "1Burnette Frank"" "1Lyons Dan"" "CapturedFields John"" 1Huffmaster James
                                        H1Johnson M S.D" "1McRussell Hugh"" "1Ford JamesG" "CapturedHolley Wash B"" "1.Ensinger ThosH" "1Johnson Andy GK" "1Jackson LeeDDaltonDiedRush Wm""DiedRose C.F.""DiedSampson S.S.""DiedWright Calvin""DiedNamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedWood TalbertGDaltonDiedRoller William""DiedHood J.J.K"DiedTulley C.T.""DiedMcCrary WesleyGDemopolisDiedWright J MDResaca1Rhea Wm RG"1Moody Tobe""1Sherman JohnBAdairsville1Oliver WmG"1Strickler Abiga""1Bowers William""1Baily John""1Orick MK"1""Barnard Wm""1Mee William""1NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedHolt G.W.KDallas1Miller T.L.""1Burrows Henry""1Hale ElijaGNew Hope1Breen Daniel""1Gentry JohnDNew Hope1Hutson AndyB"1Vestle BillieE"1Strickler RubeGKennesaw1Roller James""Emou"1Chase Walter"1Moore S.D.B" (Dead Angle)1Spears JohnK" "1McRoberts JF" "1White JohnE" "1Kincaid C.F."" "1Pugh JoeH" "1NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedBradley BenjDKennesaw1DiedBarnette F""1DiedCantroll Jas""1DiedHood LF"1DiedBrown John""1DiedCornette Leander""1DiedDeMues A D""1DiedMcJenkins Solomon""DiedSwan S.G.""1DiedThomas C.W.""1DiedWatts Wm""1DiedJohnson Andy G.KPeach Tree Creek1Walker Col F.M.---22d July 641" Jake Col's servant---" "1Templeton JohnA" "1Long John"" "1Yorkly MikeC" "1Kennedy Thomas"" "1Duit TomA" "1Bookard Silas"" "1DiedNamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedKing WIlliamC22d July, 641Kline Thomas"" "1Brabron Lieut ThosB" "1Colvill Lieut R WD" "1Dyer B.H."" "1Vestal BillieE" "1Ramsey John"" "1Sharp Lieut J.F.F" "1Rhea Robert J.G" "1Gadsey C W"" "1Farris Sam"" "1Chamberlain Geo"" "1Waggoner Geo"" "1McCary H"" "1McDermotte Capt P.H.H" "1Richards Sergt John"" "1NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedEpperson JohnBAtlantaDiedFulkerson Geo""DiedHodges James""DiedBrown Order Sergt IsacDJonesborough1Majors C.C.""1Johnson Andy GK"1Johnson A.J.G"1DiedRichards NK"1Wyman WmHLovejoy1Pile JohnC"1Morgan JohnCFranklin1Hicks Jos SG"1Bowers JamesB"1Hutson Andy""1Knox W.G.D"1Hale G.W.""1Henry S.K.""1Kelley W.A.""1Meroney J.NE"1Hawk Lieut H D-G"1NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedBowers BillieGFranklin1Bates Robert""1CapturedWhaley D.C.""1CapturedHolley Wash B""1Mayfield Jack""1Drake Geo""1Knox GeorgeH"1Alexander Tom""1Phipps Wm F.""1Hippsher William""1Waller Lum""1Hale Lieut S. Frank""1Grisham James""1Wiggins James""1Russell John""1Gunning JoeG"1Etter Lieut. W.W.K1McCarty W.N.K"1Fulkerson Sargent Maj Athur---"1Burran H.S.K"1McCarty W N""1Looney Marshall""1Webster E""1Potts Edgar""1Shipley Benj""1Coughlin PeteA"1NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedSmith Capt WinCNashvilleCapturedSullivan Dan""CapturedJohns B.J.""1Jordon Nathan"Columbia1CapturedHenderson PinkENashvilleCapturedMeroney WOE"1CaptWatts SamuelAKnoxvilleDiedBiddle A.M.""DiedBayley WmB"DiedDeadrick JW.""DiedDodron B.H.E"DiedMcCain ThosK"DiedBowers JohnGButler GaGeorgiaDied 1865NamesCoBattlesKilledWoundedCapturedDiedCox WilliamCLostCarroll Maden""Cross Sam""Crawford Wm""Crawford Dick""5 = 400Company "C". xx Given me through the kindness of
                            Wm L. Rhea.Company "C" called the "Bluntville Guards" was
                            organized in Bluntville, Sullivan Co E. Tenn May
                            1861, & was mustered into the 19th Tenn Regiment
                            CSA. at Knoxville in June
                            1861.CaptainJames P Smapp1st year1st LieutCharls J. St John" "Resigned.18612d "Geo Hull" "3d "John M Jones" "1st SargtBenj Webb" "Elected 1st Lieut18612d "D.W. Gannon" "3d "Robt R. Hughes" "accidently wounded in Miss4th "A W Smith" "5th "Sam Vance" "1st CorpM.J. Miles" "2d "L. Snapp3d "W.H. Snapp4th "S.P. PectolAllison BobCarroll MathewFlenor G.WBurnette F.W.Cox Wm SFields John WBarker JohnCarden ColumbusFelts James" LafayetteCarr WmGoba SamBarger WmDefew Sam" John HCross SamDarnell JamesGray Al" ElkEarp AdironGraham Geo LCrawford WmEasterly John LGanning Sinclair" DickFlenor WmGray WmCooper Geo A" AndyHarr RobtCresell Jhm" PeterHull, Lieut Geo WHarr MartinLeonard MikeSullivan DanHeagin Wm AMiles Wm 3d LieutShaver Andy MHall Alex" JohnShay JohnHarvey W.C." RobtSpow AaronHenderson B.F.Mullins H.B.Stuffle JordanHawley Jas RMiller James S.Snapp AbrahamHamilton S. RheaMinnick IkeVernon Abner" SamMorgan AndrewWebb JamesHarr David" John" JohnIrwin Wm ROConner Jno" GeorgeJohnson B.J.G.Pile JoberWilliams WmJordan JohnPerry WmYorkley Mike" GeorgeRoller GeorgeWhit John" ThosRoberts John" Emmett" Nathan" PetePyott Dr. ES - Ass. Surgcol bearerKing Wm" JamesKennedy Thos" JacksonShot at Col They who killed Gen
                                    ZollicofferLove Winton" Sam" AlfordRussell JohnLyons DanSmith Johnat last roll callMcPherson R. Frank" JonathanThose were of this CompyResignedno 4Transferred" 4Died" 10sick 11Killed" 10Wounded6Captured2Lost4Dropped10at surrender3Company "G".This company was organized at Blountville Tenn in May
                            1861 - & mustered into the 19th Tenn Regiment at
                                Knoxville June 6th
                            1861.A.L. GannonCaptainJames R Rhea1st LieutRobert Blair2d "James Carlton3d "Wm H. Simth1st SergtJ.R. Crawford3d "Nathan Thomas4 "Benj Keys5th "Jno H. Rhea1 CorpMose Childer2 "James H. Holt3d "John Grant4th "Anderson David DBowery JohnChase JerryBennett ChrisBarger John" NelsonBirdwell AlfordBaxter Geo" JacksonBarnes WmChase Isaac P" HarrisBeard Rufus" JohnDrake David ABlair Frank" Walter" Geo WBeard GeoCox Samuel" ElkBruce WmCarlton Adams" IsaacBates JohnCressell WmDuncan Sam" B." Van" LafayettBowery WmCross James" MathenBacon Sam" Samel" WilliamBowery CainCarroll WilliamErwin John" JamesChildress SamalFord MartinFitzgerald ThomasFields JohnMilburn -Ford JamesMoore MorrisFlenor JacobFord HenryNichols Bill =(cook)Gray JhmPoe JesseeGallaway MathewPeoplesGannon HullPorterfield WmGunning SinclairRoller DavidGallaway Benj" WmGannon J.K. Polk" GeorgeHamilton WilliamRussell" S. RheaRutledge Wade" GeorgeRoe LHorn SimonRhea Wm RHank H. Decature" Joseph" William" Robt JHarr Simon" John LHilton JohnShep JohnHawk James" SterlingHorn David" HardeeHortners MartinShea DennisHebbert JamesStarr DennisStaufield JessieJackson J.T.Strickler Ruben" (colored cook)" AbijaLacy JamesSpurgeon JosephLyons Johntipton John AMonell JohnWolford Wm G.Montgomery PeteWagler JacksonMorton WilliamMoody TallList of enrolled men of Co "E" 19th
                            Tenn.106CaptPaxton John W.Crawford HarryLackey A.J.Sinknecht C1 LieutMiller " MDavis John" Sam MStevens W.B.2d "Grayham JRDay MikeLyons EdTrainor Mike3d "Lackey WWDoak Joe A" James AVestal BillieSergtHamilton S.P.Engledon OscarLeath WmWhite John"Henderson R.P.Earnest Ed" Alex" Dave"Pate Joe" Elijah" TomWright ThomasCorpStory JoeEvans JohnLyle JohnWaller Jake L"Stephenson Jrems RGooden PeteLove Sam" H.A."Ramsey D.G.Gibron EdMeroney J.N." Lum"Dempny F.MGilmore V.B." W. Oscar" GeoAbernathy S.G.Hensley GeoMcHargue JoeWokenight W.C.Bill O.F.Hulvey WmMcCaney JohnWilliams J.N.Boyce GeoHendeson JohnMoran FrankWalker RobtBradley John" Ab CNance P.D.Wilkin Charles" SamHickey N.G.T.Nelson BobWorthington SamBrady MikeHoward TomPerry J. ClobeChamberlain TomHall JakePickle JackCarriger Nick" TomRyan JohnCallaway GeoHolston HenryRhodes Wilson" JamesIsh Ben A.Reed WmCox M DJones Dick" Brownlow" J.B.Jarnagan RufeRutherford IsacCoston Jno H.Kincaid C.F.Russel A.P.Crozier Bob" Pat" Ross B" Craniy J.N" JohnSterchi AClementron C.A.Keeland FredStarks JackCunningham S.H.Kuhn DaveSwann Harvey Wash B HalleyWash B Halley - was wounded at Missionary Ridge - ball
                        struck him in front above eye ran round & cut off
                        small tip of top of ear. At Franklin was wounded - ball
                        struck behind ear & went through the ear that was
                        wounded at Nipper ridge.Small portrait of General Braxton
                            Bragg.IndexABBarbacue 7.Abernatha Lieut S.B.
                            63-104-111-113-294-309.Barbersville KYKentucky 11.Allen George 59-303-Bean Station 6.Arkansas Ram 82-Brass Band 11-16.At home 96.Blair Lieut Robert O 4.Aikin SB 111-307.Blair Captain R.L 144 294-314.Archer William 111-310.Burson James D 299-Alexander Tom 112-245-310-321.Beech Grove 17-Alexander Frank
                                236-245.Battle of Fishing Creek 22.Allison Bob 159-315.327." " Shiloh 44.Adairsville GaGeorgia. 184-" " Baton Rouge 85.A brave Federal boy 195." " Murfreesborough 99.Anthony's Hills 261." " ChickmaugaChickamauga 131.Appendix 291." " Mission Ridge 155.A Cold Wade 20." " Above the Clouds 153." " Resaca 180." " 22d July 208.-210." " Franklin 228." " Nashville 246" " Sham 171-" " New Hope Line 186." " Picket's Mills 189." " Kennesaw 193-197." " Smyrna 200." " Jonesborough 214" " Bentonville
                            279" " Peach tree Creek 205BBBaker John 30-299.Bruce William 60-305Barker Lafayette 30-31-299.Bruden J.M. 159-314.Burrows Henry 202-317.Barnes Billie 245-321.Bains John 59-301.Brumer S.H. 245-321.Bradford M 59.302.Bates Robert 245-321.Brabson Lieut T.M. {63-113-124 212- -319.Bentonville 279.Boofer Wm R 59-302.Biddle A M 322.Bradley Samuel 59-303.Bagley Wm 322.Bradley Benj 203-318.Beard Geo -112-311.Buckner J.M 60-303.Buran Henry 245-321-Banard Wm 185-316.Baily John -185-316.Burnette James 65-305Barrn Daniel 186-317" Frank 112-159-308-315.Brewer Clark 60- 303-Batton Rouge 85.Bookard Silas 212-318-Burkheart Wm 111-307.Brown, Corporal Clabe 111-30.Bowers James 159-245-314-320-" William 185-245-316-321-Brown Orderly Sergent Isac 217-320." John 203-318.Company ABowels Wm 62-292.Company B" D.R. 111-309.Company C 327.Barger J.R. 111-309." DBarger W.H. 30-31-299" E 331-Brataber John 112-144-308-313." FBarnette Frank 203-318." G 329" J.W. 144-313." HBasket John 112-310." IBowery John -322-" KCCCummings Col. D.H.
                            3-7-9-16-27-39-43-60-88-302.Curran O.S. Co"A"-111-307.Chase Harrison 150-314-Chase J.T. 59-303." Walter 202-317Conly Lieut J. 3-29-299.Check E.W. 59-174-303-Colville Elmon E. 4.Courtney M 59-304" Lieut R.W. 112-124-212-294-308-319-Craig Al 60-303Carroll Maden 323.Carlton Leiut James 4-29-300Cook John 60-304.Carney" Thomas 62-292." William 144-314Camp Cummings 6.Cross A.J. 66-305." Zollicoffer "" Sam 323.Cresswell John 299.Childress D.M. 111-307.Conwell Martin 116-311.Carson Samuel 112-308.Cumberland Gap 7.Cheatham, Gen, on a strength 119.Council of War 21." "and the boys 169.Clemonson Charley 28-219-300." "Last review 286.Carlton James 29-299.Challenge, The, 125.Carmack John 60-112-144-304-311-314.Cooper John 144-313.Chamblis Charley 150.Carmack Isac 29-300-Cowan, Tenn 120." Carroll 29-301Cass Station GaGeorgia 185.Campbell James 30-300Cantnel James 203-318.Cox William 323.Carnette Leander 203-318." Sam 30-300.Chamberlain George 212-319.Corrinth, Mississippi 43-61.Columbia Tenn 224.Cunningham S.H. 3-9-303Columbus GaGeorgia 271." Leiut Thomas 63-124-294.Chattanooga 123-147.Curran Connely Co "E" 59-303.Canteen of Whiskey 280.Cressell Van -112-309Cooper Geo A 302-59-Canghlin Rit 245-321DEConsolidation of Regiments 282.Etter Lieut W.W. 64-88-114-296.Crawford WM 322" C.C. 59. 302-" Dick 322.Casualties 299.Easterling John 5-8-5-9-301.Crozien RC- 30-300-Erps Adrin 60-88-111-302-308.Edgeman S.G. 30-300.D.Englishman, The Old, 77.Doak H. Mel 3.Eaglesville 97.Dulaney Jr. J.E. 3-62-84-212-292.Easterly John L. 111-308.327Deadrick Capt. J.D.
                            3-63-163-77-177-218-292.Earnest Ed 111-309Engledow O- 124-294Deadrick J.W. 322.Ensinger Thos 159-315.Dunlap W.M. 29-299.Epperson John 159-315.DePue - 65-304.Ellison A.J. 111-309.Duglas H.D. 65-305.Duncan William 66-305." Samuel 60-303-Drake Samuel 66-305." Geo 245-321Death in the Oar 93" struggle 142.Dead Angle 194.DeLonas W.M. 144-313.Deakin Charles 154-312.DaltonGaGeorgia 162.Dug Gap 174.DeMurs A.D. 203-318.Dyer B.H. 212-319Dodson B.H. 322.Deature AlaAlabama 220.Duit Tom 212-318.FGFulkerson Maj Abe 3-7-60-302.Greg Nathan 3." Arthur 62-216-245-321.Gregham Lieut- 4.Foust, Lieut Frank 3-62-292." G.W. 30-299,327-" A.J. 306.Gaston Leiut- 4.Frazier Capt. S.F.A.
                            4-63-113-124-144-294-313.Gammon Capt. A.G. 4." " J.G. 63-104-111-292-308." " A.L. 63-294" Clark 144-314-" Leiut J.K.P. 63-114-294.Fog, A dense 10-" " W.D. 114-282-292.Fishing Creek 22.Goose Creek 12." " Map of- 25.Godby John 59-301.Forner Isac 59-303.Gaby Sam 60-302.Fields John 60-159-315-327." Gris 111-307.Flenon Pete 65-304." John 111-308." Andrew 93-307.Gray Al 60-302.Foster D.L. 65-305." James 65-304." Samuel 111-307.Grant John. M 65-305.Ford Martin 112-309.Graves Washington 65-305." Alford 112-309-311.Garner W.M. 174." James 116-159-315.Grisham James, 144-245-314-321.Flag of the Old 19th 88-107.Gunboat hunt 74.Fudge Charles 111-311.Godhelp the Dutchman 78.Ferris Sam 212-319-Give them what Cheatham says 134.Franklin Tenn 226.Gentry Joshua 202-317.Fulkerson George 212-320.Grogan Wash 112-310.Faithful Maidens of the South 277.Guning Joe 245-320Godsey C.W. 212-319-HHHull Leiut Geo H. 4-30-31-299.Hamilton S. Rhea 111-309." John M 65-305." J.W. 306Hannah Maj J.H. 4-63-218-282.-294Horne Simeon 112-310.Hammer Lieut J.C. 63-113-292.Hilton James 112-310.Holms " J.C. 4.Humpheries O.M. 116-311.Hooper " Warren 5.Holly Bill 112-144-308-313.Heiskell Col CW.
                            5-64-114=125=126=130-138-144-163-258-282-296-313.Hawley Martin C 144-314.Horse killed 9-Hashberger J.D. 154-312.Henderson Pink 28.255-322-Hood J.J. 173-316." Ab 84-Hood Gen J.B. 201-204, 207-270.Harr Martin 30-31-299.Holt G.W. 202-317." Robert 60-65-302-305.Hood L 203-318." Hornet's Nest" 48.Hipsher Wm 245-321Harvey Capt W.C. 63-114-292Hefflin J.M. 311.Hodge Lieut A.B. 63-294.Henry S.R. 245-320." James 212-320Havely Serg't James 271.Hawk Lieut H.D. 63-115-144-294.314=Hughes " Robt R 327.Hale Lieut S.F. 64-238-245-294-321.Holley Wash B. -315-321-34" Elija 112-310=186-317.Hicks Jos S. 245-320." Lieut Wm 64-296.Hutson Andy -112-186-245-307-317-320-" G.W. 245-320.Huffmaster James
                                H 315-Hoyle Lieut B.F. 64-218-296.Huffmaster Capt J.H. 64-112-114-296-311.Hampton William 65-304.Holly Springs Miss. 91."Home Sweet home." 101.Home & Mother 241.Home again 288I - JKIrwin Wm R 282.Kennedy Capt D.A. 3-62-292." J.B. 90-" J.H. 62-292I am the Conductor 278." Tom 158-212-318.Invitation to dinner 275-Kimbrough Capt J.H. 64-218-282-294.Ill fated spot 137.Kuhn David 7.Kennon M 59-302JKeeling Frank 59.Johnson V.Q. 3.Keller Geo W. 111-308." Gen A.S. death of 51.Kincaid Pat 111-310." B.J.S. 60-302." Creed F. 112-203-309-317." M.S. 159-315.Kelley W.A. 144-245-313-320." Gen J.E. 163-201-270.Kennesaw 193." J.J. 217-320.Kline Thomas 212-319-" Andy G. 30-144-159-203-217-King Wlliam 212-319-Jones John M 4." David O -305-Jamestown Tenn 17.Knox W.G. 245-320.Jacksborough " 16." George 245-231.Jordon John 30-31-299.King E.R 60-302-308-" George 299." Nathan 264-322.Johns B.J. 60-255-302-322.Jarnigan Maj R.J. 62=104-292-307.Jackson Miss. 88." E.H. 112-311." Lee 173-315.Jolley W.F. 144-313.James Lieut R.P. 124.Jonesborough Tenn 214.Jenkins S.M 90-LMLamb Rufus 3-62-152.Map Fishing Creek 25.Lackey Capt W.W. 4-63-137-144-294-313." Shiloh 49." Jack 150." Vicksburg 71.Lowery Capt Wm H. 4." Murfreesborough 105.Lovejoy John 5." Chickamauga 135." Lieut W.H. 64-296" Dalton 165.Lyons Dan 59-159-302-315." Resaca 179.Leath T.J. 59-303-" Franklin 229.Lincoln John 60-302." Nashville 249.Lively Capt J.D. 64-296." Atlanta Campaign
                            188.Landgrace R 66-305.Miller Pete 4.Loudon Tenn 96" John 4.Loftis D.W. 112-308-" Lieut Wm B. 64-112-271-296-311." Richard 306." Charles 111-311.Landerback Felix 116-312-" T.L. 202-317.Looney Benjamin 137-144-314.Miles Lieut M.J. 63-114-292, 327." Marshall 245-321." " Wm 63-114-292.Last roll call 282.Mill Springs 17.Last order of Gen J.E. JohnsonJohnston 285Maston Thos 4."Lone Cedar" 146.Moore Col B.F. 5-58-62-78-Long John 212-318" 96-97-125-126-156-159-292-314." John 159." C. Columbus 150." S D 194-317-" John C. 305-60-Montecella 17.Middleton Sergt--29-300.Masengill Felix 60Moneyham -- 30-301Munger Old 6McCarty W.N. 245-321-MN - O.Meroney J.N. 245-320-Meroney W.O. 25-322-Milhorn John 59-303.Night of Suspence 32.Montague J.R. 59-303.Newport J.F. 60-302.Melton A.J. 65-305.Nail Lieut N.P. 62-124-292-307." J.C. 306.Norton Rev. R.W. 163-281-292.Murfreesboro Pike 113-New Hope 186.Martin Harris 151-311.Nashville, on to 246.Marshall E.W. 111-311Nance Pete D 303Mitchel John 112-144-308-313.Morgan Andrew 154-312-" John 245-320.Mason John 254.Micheals J.H. 154-312.Moody Tobe -183-316.Mee William 185-316Majors CC 217-320.OMcDermott Capt Paul- 64-210-Organization 3." " 211-212-294-319.O'Conner John 59-302.McKinny Wm 65-304.Oliver Bill 185-316.McGhee J.M. 111-307-Orick M 185-316.McKissack J.R. 111-309.Our first introduction to Cheatham 98.McClain Jasper 112-308." Thomas 322.McPherson Frank 144-282-313.McAndry J.W. 144-314.McRussell Hugh 159-315.McRoberts J. 202.-317.McJenkins Sol 203-318.McCary Henriette 212-319-Mayfield Jack -245-321-P - QRPaxton Capt John W. 4.Rhea Lieut James A. 4-60-63-294-303.Payne J.J. 116-312." " Robert G. 63-116-294-311-Powell Capt J.D. 3." " William 111-308." Lieut Robert 5-11." " John H. 115-144-314." Sam P. 5" Wm R. 112-183-309-316" John L 29-Powers James - 30-59-299-301-" Robert J. 212-319.Peach tree Creek 205.Rock Castle 14.Perry Clabe 28-266.Roller David 30 112 300-Pile John 60-301.320-" William 308.Pyotte, Dr. J.E. 62-292." James 202-317.Parker L.D. 65-305" George "G" 245-321." George "C" 111-308Pruit's death sentence 115.Rowe Lewis 59-301.Palmer, Dr. at Chattanooga 124Roberts Isac 59-302.Pughe Joe 203-317." Jackson 60-301.Potts Edgar 245-321." Sam 60-65-302-304.Phipps William 245-231.Reorganization 62.Pickett's Mills 189.Russell Wm Robert 112-144-309-314.Polk Gen L's Death 191." John 245-231.Pactol Sam P- 60-302-327.Renfroe James 144-313.Potterfield William -60-303.Raney J.R. 154-312.RinggoldGaGeorgia 161.Rush Wm 173-315.Rose C.F. 173-315.Richards Sergt John 174-319-210-211-212." N 217-320.ResacaGaGeorgia 178.Removal of Gen JohnsonJohnston JE. 201.RSRamsey John 212-319-Sullins Rev David 3-10,83-Retreat 256.Snapp Capt J.K. 4.Rear guard 251.St John Charles 4.327.Report, the last 291.Sims Lieut J.M. 4-60-63-87-112-144
                            307-309-314-" of Officers of regiment 292.Spears John 198-202-317.Rock Face - DaltonGaGeorgia 175." Lieut Sam 5.Rudd A.M. 308." C.C. 114-296.Roller William 175-316Smith Capt A. Win 63-114-116-159-327.Riley S.W. 90-" " 255-292-311-315-322." Lieut A.C. 113-124-150." Joseph 29-300." Thomas 111-310.John 112-308." Ransom 154-312.Short R.P. 30-300.Storm in the Woods 42.Shaver J.A. 60-302.Sharp Lieut J.F. 63-212-294-319." F.E. 154-312-Salts John 61-304.Staples Henry 84." Rufus 84.Sharp Shooter 177.Swan J.H. 111-309." S.G. 203-318.Sloan J.H. 111-309.Skelton H.H. 111-309.Stover Jake 144-314STStansberry YA 111-310.Taylor A.D. 3-62-292.Strange James 112-310"Through the Wilderness" 35.Swan Wm 144-313.Tipton Lieut R.J. 63-115-124-292-312.Strange Scene 149-214." J.A. 111-309.Secret Scout 150.Tupelo Miss- 67-269.Stowe Richard 154-312.Thompson Orderly Sergt Joe 107.Sampson S.S. 173-315.Tullahoma Tenn 118.Sherman John 185-316.Tatham Lieut J.F. 124-294.Stocks in Camps 167.Traynor Mike 144-313.Snow balling, big- 170.Tresby John 144-313.Smyrna GaGeorgia 200.Ten, killed 172.Sugar Creek Tenn 262The funeral 173.Stricklin Rube 202-317.Tally C.F. 173-316.Shoal Creek 263.The Old 19th With Maney's Brigade 192.Salt & Sarghum 266.Thomas C.W. 203-318."Sun shine" 272.The 22nd July 206.Seamore John 306.Tillman Col James D. 217-282.Sexton S.H. 306.Tuscumbia AlaAlabama 221.Shaw Charley 306.The last Hominy 267.Sullivan Dan 255-322.Travis Benjamin 306Surrender, the, 284.Terry Charles 306.Sun veiling his face 141."The typical mamma" 274.Snapp L.K. 327.Templeton John 212-318." W.H. 327.Tyner James, 3-62-83-Speck Lawrence P- 60-304-Shipple Ben 245-321-U - VWUnion of AS JohnsonJohnston & Crittenden 38.Walker Col. F.M.
                            3-7-8-9-27.62-74-89-90-92-96-98-132-167-192-209-211-212-292-318.University Place 121.Walker Jake - The Col's Servant 177-" Capt T.H. 5-59-303." Lade 84.Worsham W.J. 3-62-76-152-177.Willette Capt Zeb T. 3-59-301.Wallace Lieut James A 4-60-302." Len 245.Wilds D.A. 4.White's Ducks 13.VWelch Leander 29-300.Vestal Billie 30-38-164-186-202-212-300-Woodall Josiah 29-301." 317-319.Webb Lieut Ben 60-65-301-305.327.Vernon Abner 30-299." James 30-31-301.Vance Sam 59-301.327.Wolfinberger K.S. 59-304.Vicksburg Miss 69.White John Co "E" 198-203-317." John Co " "C" 60-301." Emit 307.Ward William 60-302.Waller Capt J.L. 63-113-124-266-282-294." Lieut H.A. 63-113-294." Sergt Lenn 238-245-321.White J.M. - Burried at Covinton GaGeorgiaWooding Lieut J.E. 64-83-296Wood Talbert 173-316Women under shot & shell 183.Waggoner Geo 212-319-WYWilliams P.A. 111-309.York Lieut U.S. 4" C.F. 65-305." Charley 59-303." Newton 164.Yorkley Mike 212-318." Mee 185.Wax Wm 111-311.Wideman J.P. 154-312.Zollicoffer Gen F K -Wright Calvin 173-315." J.M 183-316Watts William 203-318." Samuel 322.Webster E. 245-321.Wiggins James 245-321.Wells Sam 306.Whaley D.C. 245-321.Wreck of Army 240.Wynan Wm 320.Wilkins Lieut Doc 60-303.Wright Thomas, 60-87-140-144-301-307-313.Willhorn John 60- 303-Wayler Jackson 111-303