Page 1

The following text is a continuation of the fourth page of the letter. absence, that I intend to drop my correspondence with you. I have indeed neglected almost all my old correspondents; but I hope I shall never neglect you. My friendship for you is intwined with my very heart; and I know I shall never forget you, or cease to love you. Write to me soon, & remember me to Mrs. Ramsey, your brothers & sister &c. I am, dear Sir, with much esteem yours &c. J.R. Bain The preceding text is a continuation of the fourth page of the letter. Gallatin T June 23 Dr. James M'G. Ramsey Received June 29, 1823. The following text is a continuation of the fourth page of the letter. P.S. I continue to preach, but with little apparent success. I frequently feel discouraged. My School is tolerably good. Our impending Presidential election has also given a new start to Politics in this county. I hope Adams will be elected. This must be your desire of course. J.R.B. No Jackson is forever J.G.M. Ramsey The preceding text is a continuation of the fourth page of the letter.

Page 2

Gallatin June 20th 1823 Dear Sir, Just as I received your letter of 29th May, I was about to answer your former letter; but I have waited two weeks longer and shall reply to both at the same time. At your request I went directly to see Zacheras Wilson. He is very old and infirm, and although he has a faint recollection of the transaction you mentioned, yet he has forgotten all the particulars. I mentioned the particular things on which you wanted information, and he said he would think about it, and endeavor to recollect all he could against another time. I accordingly left him, and in a week returned again to see him; but he could not recollect any thing particular about it. He says he recollects that there was such a convention, that he was a member, that there were several others, perhaps to the number of 20 or 30, that as far as he recollects they were all farmers, and true Republicans, that there motive was to write together in proving faithful in the defence of their country against the British and Tories; that some thought they were rather premature; he thinks perhaps Col. George Alexander (if I mistake not) was Clerk, but he cannot re-

Page 3

collect the name of the President. This, Sir, is all the information that I could get. Perhaps he has not thought of it for 40 years before, and he is now just tottering over the grave, and I suppose will never recollect any thing more. - Although I, with great pleasure, endeavoured to collect all the information I could for you on that subject, yet I should be glad to know what interest you can have in it at this late period. But this is only curiosity in me. In my last, I requested you to authorize the Editor of the Knoxville paper to put my name down as a subscriber, if you considered it worth taking. I know not whether you forgot it, or misunderstood it, I have never received the paper; nor did you in your last mention whether you had attended to it or not. However I am now well enough satisfied it never came on; for I am taking, perhaps, too many papers already. In your former letter, you seem to complain of the unchristian manner in which you see many professors of religion conduct themselves. Dear Sir, this is to be lamented in every part of Christendom; but this is no argument against the reality of religion. Christians, no doubt, by their disorderly conduct,

Page 4

do more harm to the cause of Christ, than all the infidels in the world. But when we meet with a counterfeit note, (and indeed there are several in circulation) we never look upon it as an evidence that there is no genuine money. Indeed the very term counterfeit, implies that there is something genuine which has been counterfeited. Let us then deal as candidly with respect to Christians as money, and believe that there are some worthy of the title, though they may have their imperfections. Let us not reject the good with the bad. But you say, you do not do this. I do not accuse you of it. I know you have too much good sense. But let me as a friend tell you that the misconduct of Christians, & particularly of parents with respect to their children, should not rebar you from the church, or hinder you from offering your children to God in baptism. Do you do your duty, and let others be accountable to God for their own conduct. Resolve that, let others do as they may, you & your house will serve the Lord. Attach yourself, (if you have not already done it) to the Church of Christ, and set others an example. Let your light so shine around you that others beholding your good works, may also be constained to glorify your heavenly Father. You have now got a family, and have become a father; remember the duties of a father desolve upon you. I hope my dear Sir, that you will remember the ways of your pious father, and walk in his footsteps. Try to fill his place, & be a father to your younger brothers & sister, a blessing to your wife & children, and an example of piety & virtue to all around you. My dear Friend, do not suppose, from my long

