DailyJournal1866MS-874182jhm engMy Journal of 1866John Willard HillKnoxvilleE. TennJan. 1stDaily JournalFor1866Published AnnuallyFor the TradeMDCCCLXVI916041Counting-House Calendar1866Monday, January 1, 1866.I am now writting my Journal in a new book I found on
					my table this morning, it is a great deal smaller than the
					book I have been writting my Journal of 1865 in, but it is a
					perfect beauty, it has got an Almanac in the front of it.This morning I got up in good time, but I did not get through reciting my lessons till late, and I had to wait for Mrs. Wicks when I took my music lesson, so I did not get through till late, I am going to get through tomorrow, no matter what it cost; Mother was just the other way[.] she got through her washing in good time, but she could not dry her clothes as it rained.Ich war heute garnicht fleBig. [I was not industrious at all today].Tuesday, January 2, 1866.Today I got through my lessons in good time, yesterday I told you I was going to get through early and I did, I wish I could say that every day. Yesterday when I took my music lesson I left my piece that I was taking up there, so today when I watered Grant I went up there and got it, Father was up there at the time, Mrs. Cooper is feeling quite uncomfortable.Today Dr. Fouchee came to see father, he has just got back. This morning I got up at a quarter past three, but I went back to bed again.Herman Schenck brought my book back, he said he read it through. May be that Mr. Sanford will be elected Mayor of the town. Meine Mutter war heute zufrieden mit mir. [Today mother was very satisfied with me.]Wednesday, January 3, 1866.This morning Mother got up early and got the clothes hung out and the porch washed before breakfast, I was the other way [.] I got up late, and did not get through till late. I am going to get through earlier tomorrow. This morning Mrs. Wicks came and gave Mother her music lesson, Mrs. Herald went off with Mrs. Wicks and has not got back yet. today as it is so muddy I did not water the horse away from home. Last Monday Marie got a letter from her sister in Europe. Today I sent Herman Schenck's money to Ill. for the "Little Corporal," I wrote a note last night, but Father told me what to say, Yesterday Mr. Wit came after Mrs. Sneed's Bible and Prayer book. Ich machte heute meine Aufgaben nicht gut. [Today I didn't do my assignments at all].Thursday, January 4, 1866.With the exception of my German I knew all of my lessons good, I am going to see if I cannot get my German good too tomorrow. Today Herman Schenck came to get something from Marie. Every evening now Marie goes upstairs to see Mrs. Herald, Marie says that she will be sorry  when Mr. H. comes back. Today Mr. Sanford started for New York, by way of Richmond. I would have liked to have gone with him, so as to see the battle fields.This morning Mrs. Herald took a music lesson, I took mine this evening, I have taken all of the "Monastery Bells," Mrs. Wicks sayt that she will be proud of me when I know it.Mit Ausneheme des deutschen heute alle meine Aufgaben gut. [With the exeption of German (I did) all my homework well.]Friday, January 5, 1866.Today I got through my lessons very late, although I knew my lessons pretty well, except my spelling, but the trouble was this; I got up late, did not begin until late, was long reading and doing everything else, just as sure as I am living (I expect taht Mother thinks I am dead sometimes because I do not get thnrough till so very late) I am going to get through Monday. Today Mr. Armstrong sent father another load of corn.Mother dictates my German to me now, she says something about my lessons, she is going to see how many times I get my lessons good in a year.Yesterday Mrs. Herald got a letter from Mr. H.Ich war heute nicht fleiBig. [Today I was not industrious]Saturday, January 6, 1866.This morning I took my boots down to the shoemakers shop to be mended. Today Jack came to town, he brought my mittens, he said that Mr. Wohlwend give him a whole lot of shot powder and caps, he showed them to me. Johanna killed her two hogs not long ago. she sent us some of the meat, I tell you it is good, Fatehr said this morning that he bought a hog.Today there was a gentleman here for dinner. Mrs. Shavant and Miss Porter came to see Mother. I did not get through my work till late.This morning I cleaned up the stable. Father got a letter from Emma yesterday.Ich habe mich morgen schlecht betragen. [I did not behave today.]Sunday, January 7, 1866.It has been a very pleasant Sunday not quite so cold as yesterday. This morning Mother and I went to church [.] there were a good many there, Mr. Humes' text was in the Psalms, I did not know what it was, because I have not studied up to the 70th yet.This morning I went to Sunday school, Georgie Baxter was there too, he is in our class.Today after Mother and I came from church I watered the horses; I had a good ride, I rode Billy, Grant followed, I tell you, did not he cut up. This evening Father and Mother are not very well; I have got the headache a little. This morning Marie said maybe she would go to church but did not.Ich und meine Mutter waren in der Kirche [Mother and I went to church.]Monday, January 8, 1866.It has been a very cold day, a great deal colder than yesterday.Today Mother got through washing her clothes in good time, I don't see how she kept from freezing. Today I did not get through my lesson's very early. This morning Mrs. Herald took a music lesson, she had to play for Mrs. Sanford.Last night I had a good time reading my paper, I am on the second last one now.Yesterday evening Anna Baxter cam to see marie. Yesterday Mrs. Herald got a letter. I do not know who from, I guess from Mr. H.I took a music lesson, Mrs. Wicks said that I know my lesson splendedly, it is the best of the "Monastery Bell." Ich war heute morgen nicht brave. [This morning I was not well behaved.] Tuesday, January 9, 1866.Last night a young gentleman came to see Mother, He came from Switzerland, he has not been in America but two years, he cannot talk English very much, Mother talked german to him most all of the time, he works down at Mr. Smith's store, I showed him my drawing, I don't believe he thought it was good, because he knows something about drawing, I like his appearance quite well. Today I did not get through my lessons till late.Today Mother has been ironing the clothes, she got through in good time. I took the horses to water. Last night Father had to go up to Mr. Cooper's Mrs. C. is very sick. It has been a very cold day.Mein Betragen und meine Aufgaben waren nicht befriedigend. [My behavior and my homework were not satisfactory.]Wednesday, January 10, 1866.It has been a pleasant but very cold day, it was this morning two degrees colder than yesterday morning.Yesterday our hog came, Uncle Bob has been butchering it up today grinding, so meet, I do not [think] that he is through yet, won't I be glad [.] we will have hog meet all of the time, I could eat it three times a day, Father say's that it is the most unhealthy meet in the world.This morning I got up at 4 oclock, but I went back to bed again, I got up the second time at 5, Marie went to sleep. I did not. Today I did not get through my lessons till late. This P.M. Mother and Mrs. Heald have gone calling & have not got back yet.Ich habe heute nicht alle meine Aufgaben gut gemacht ]Today I didn't do all my assignments well.]Thursday, January 11, 1866.Yesterday evening Mother and Mrs. Heald got back in good time, I was just getting the coal beds.It has been pretty warm today, may be we sill have snow.Today mother went up to Mr. Cooper's to see Mrs. C. She did not get back till after dinner.Today I took a music lesson, I took a new piece [.] it is very pretty, the name of it is the "Eldora Polka, the brass band used to play it. Miss Haty mily came to see Mother.Today Mrs. Heald went up to Mrs. Sanfords, while she was gone Mrs. Sanford came to see Father. This evening Mother and Father have gone to take a ride.Ich war heute nicht fruh ferting. [Today I did not finish early.]Friday, January 12, 1866.It has been a very rainy gloomy day. Today I did not get through till late.Today Father got circulars to put in the Almanac's,Mrs. Heald has had a pretty study [steady] job putting them in, I think there is over two thousand to be fixed, I fixed them last time, Mother was at Cincinnati then. Today I did not water the horses away from home as it is muddy.Mother is beginning to clean house now I think for I seen her tumbling up the things, I do hate house-cleaning, If I ever get a house and a wife I am not going to let her clean it but once in ten years.Ich war heute ein boser Knabe. [Today I was a bad boy.]Saturday, January 13, 1866.Last night it rained very hard, and has been very muddy all day in consequence.This morning Jack brought back Mothers big iron kittle, I helped him carry it in, he brought back my cape, he could not find my stocking, Today Mrs. Cooper is very sick [.] when Father got up there they did not think she would live at all. Today Mrs. Healds things came that she sent for long before Christmas, the box is so big that it looks as if she had sent for "all Lowell." Today I bought some silk paper, I got five sheets for a quarter of a dollar, at the same time I paid for my boots.Wej are trying to eat up our hod now, I tell you it is good.Ich war heute nicht fruh fertig. [Today I did not finish early.]Sunday, January 14, 1866.This morning I went to Sunday school, there were a great many more than there are generaly, after I came home Mother and I went to chruch, there were a good many there. Today I got through saying my verses in good time, I got through before two o clock.Today I took the horses to water, Grant cut up awfully.This evening at two o colock I went up to Mr. Spence's singing, I had a good time, I was in the same class Sam. Morrow was in.It has been a rather cloudy day, but did not rain much.Last night Mother Mrs. Heald and Father fixed Almanacs till late. Mrs. Cooper is a good deal better [.]Ich kannte meine Verse gut. [I knew my verse well.]Monday, January 15, 1866.This morning I could not see to clean the horses till the clock had struck seven, I read my History to Mother while she was washing the clothes. Last night Mrs. Heald set up all night with Mrs. Cooper, she came home about 7 oclock.Today I did not get through my lessons in very good time, I will try to do better tomorrow.It has been a very dark and gloomy day, I will be glad when summer comes, because it is light at 4 oclock then. I took a music lesson, I have taken a new piece to day, the name of it is the "Faust March," it is splendid, Mrs. Heald did not take a lesson [.] she was too sleepy, I donot believe she feels like going tonight.Ich habe meine Aufgaben nicht guy gehabt. [I did not do my assignments well.] Tuesday, January 16, 1866.Last night Mother and Mrs. Heald stayed all night with Mrs. Cooper, they came home about 15 minutes after six.Last night I Pasted 190 leaves in the Almanac's, Mother and Mrs. Heald did a great did [deal] more than I didIt has been a very pleasant day, Mother hung out the clothes.Today I have hand an awful head ache, I feel just as if somebody was sticking me with a knife all of the time.This evening Mother is ironing the clothes.Yesterday or day before Father got a letter from Emma, Mrs. Heald did not.This evening Mrs. Marret cam to see Mrs. Heald.Ich hatte meine Aufgaben nicht gut. [I did not do my assignments well.]Wednesday, January 17, 1866.Wednesday, Last night I went to bed early, I had an awful headache, I got up at half past 10 o clock last night, but when Marie told me what time it was, I went back to bed, at two o clock I got up and came down stairs, and told Father how sick I was, he got up and made a fire, and gave me some medicine, and then I got into bed with Father and Mother, then I went to sleep and did not wake up till it was most 7 o clock, I have had the head ache all day, Father gave me some more medicine, and I had to live on gruel all day, but this P.M. my medicince opporated, and maybe I can have some supper, I have had rather a gloomy day of it all day, I hope I will be better tommorrow.Ich war heute krank, ich will morgen besser sein. [I was ill today; I hope I feel better tomorrow.]Thursday, January 18, 1866.Today I have been a great deal better, I got up and cleaned the horses, (I had the headache when I first got up, I had it awfully) [.] after I got through I did not feel it hardly any, I came in an studied my lessons, I got through saying them in pretty good time, Mother let off my drawing and writing. This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson.I took Billy to the black smiths shop to be shod.This evening I took a music lesson, I took the rest of the "Faust March."Yesterday evening Mrs. Heald, Mother and Father went to call upon Mrs. Fesenten. Ich hatte meine Aufgaben ordentlich gut. [I did my assignments neatly and well]Friday, January 19, 1866.It has been a very pleasant, warm day, To day Father has not been very well, but this evening he has gone in the country. Ti day I have been perfectly well. Last night Father, Mother & Mrs. Heald went up to Mr. SanfordsToday I did not get through my lessons till late.I went to the post office today but there was not anything there. Last Monday Father bought a barrel of white sugar.Just now Father came home, I expect he is awfully tired. This evening Mother and Mrs. Heald have gone to take a walk, they have not come back yet.Day before yesterday Mrs. Heald got a letter frome Mr. H.Ich war heute nicht fruh fertig und hatte meine Aufgaben nicht gut. [Today I did not finish early and did not do my assignments well.]Saturday, January 20, 1866.Last night or rather this morning it rained awfully, and the wind blew, but this morning it changes into a snow, it snowed a good while, but as the ground was so wet that it melted right away. Today Elisa was married, Mrs. Heald went up there, but Mother did not as it was so very  muddy, Father intended to go but did not, as he was so busy.
				This evening I went to the Festival up to Mr. Spences, I had a splendid time, we played out of doors for a while, then we went upstairs and sang, after taht we ate dinner, we had a splendid one too, we had oranges lemons, nuts and every thing that was good, after it was over I went down to the post offcie and got two letters.Es war heute ein verregneter Tag. [Today it was a rainy day.]Sunday, January 21, 1866.It has been a very cold day. This morning I went to Sunday school, Caty Humes was there for the first time since Miss Melia Morrow has been teacher, after I came home Mother and I went to church, there were a great many there. This morning I wore my new coat to church, Mother got it done yesterday evening, it is a perfect beauty. I went down to the post office and got a letter for Mrs. Heald and one for Father, on the way I saw Will Klemm, it is the first time I saw him since I came from the country.This evening Marie went up to see Johanna and Mrs. Schenck.I donot think Motehr is very well today.Ich war heute nicht fruh fertig. [Today I did not finish early.]Monday, January 22, 1866.It has not been quite as cold as yesterday. This morning mother got through her clothes in good time, I was just the other way [.] I did not get through till late.This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson.Yesterday evening I went over to Herman Schencks, and sta ied a good while, I took him my papers and a book to read, he has cut his foot so badly that he cannot walk, he done it with an ax, after I came home I had a good time reading in my paper.To day I took a music lesson, I did not take any thing new. Today another box of Almanacs came to Father.father got a letter from Emma today.Ich hatte alle meine Aufgaben nicht im ersten mahl recht. [My assignment was incorrect the first time.]Tuesday, January 23, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, and it is not as muddy as it was. My drawing has been for two or three day my cannon that Sam. Simcox gave me, I have not got it done yet, it is very hard to draw.Yesterday evening Mrs. Crowford came to see Father [.] she stayed a good while. Today Mr. McCampbell brought Father a load of wood, Father is going to have it all cut up into chuncks.This evening Mrs. Gratz came to see Mother and Mrs. Heald. Mother got through ironing the clothes in good time.Today Father got a telegram and a letter, I do not know who from. I did not get through my lessons till late.This P.M. I have a headache.Ich hatte meine Aufgaben wieder nicht im ersten mahl recht. [Again my assignment was incorrect the first time.]Wednesday, January 24, 1866.It has been a rainy gloomy day. Today Bob has been cutting up the wood, he got done in good time. Yesterday Father bought Mother a pair of shoes, I have not seen them yet.Today I did not get through my lessons till late.This morning Mrs. Wicks gave Mother a music lesson, she has taken a piece, it is right pretty, Mother does not like it very much.Today I only had to water Grant, as Father watered Billy. Father got a letter from Mr. Heald, he is in Cincinnati now. Mrs. Cooper is a good deal better now, she wants to set up bed [.] Father does not want her to.Ich war heute nicht trage aber ungeschickt. [Today I was not lazy but clumsy].Thursday, January 25, 1866.Today I have not been a good boy at all, I did not get through my lessons till late, I will tomorrow, if it is possible, and I think it always is.It has been a very pleasant day, but it is very muddy, I had to go as slow as a snail. This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson. I have got the headache awfully this evening, it aches because I did not get through, I expect.Yesterday Bob got through chopping the wood in good time, he did not split any of it, so now we have chuncks, I tell you they burn good. I have to take my music lesson at 4 oclock now, after I get through writting my Journal, I am going.Ich hatte meine Aufgaben schlecht. [I did my assignments poorly.]Friday, January 26, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, but rather chilly.To day I knew my lessons pretty well. Last night I did the sum Mr. Heald gave me to do a long time ago, I am going to tell him when he comes back. yesterday evening Mrs. George Smith came to see Mother and Mrs. Heald, she staied a good while.This evening Johanna and Johnie came to see mother.To day I watered Grant, I had a good ride but it was awful muddy, on the way home I dropped my whip in the mud, and I had to get down and get it, This evening my tooth aches like "sintax," I am going to get Father to pull it out.Ich war heute ungehorsam. [Today I was disobedient.] Saturday, January 27, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Today I got through my work in good time.This morning I got up at 3 oclock, and then again at 4, I wanted to get up early, but not too "early, but when I found it was 4 o clock, I went to sleep and did not wake up till late.Yesterday evening Mrs. Wohlwend brought Mother a bucket full of sourcrout, and to day I took Grant and, took a little bucket full out to Mrs. Jones, I staied a good while, I had lots of fun, John made me a splendid pair of stilts, he promised to bring them to town the next time he came, we plaied "black-man" ol stilts, John caught me every time as he can walk so fast on them.Ich war fruh fertig. [I finished early.]Sunday, January 28, 1866.This morning all of us got up late, the Sunday school bell rang before we got through eating breakfast. This morning I went to sunday school, after I came back Mother and I went to church, there was a large congregation Father had to take up contribulation [contribution], I did not give him any thing. After I came home I watered the horse, Mother staied to communion. Today we had a rabbit for dinner, I tell you it was good.This evening I went up to Mr. Spence's singing school I had a good time I got two papers. Father has had more to do to day than he had last Sunday. This evening I have got the headache a little.Ich bin zum Gesang gegangen. [I went to singing class.]Monday, January 29, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. This morning I got up at 2 o clock, but I went back to bed.Today Mother got through her clothes in good time [.] I was just the other way [.] I did not get through till late. Last night I had a good time reaking my paper, I got through my last one, so I have caught up now, I will not have quite so much to read, I will pick out a good book and read it between times. This evening Mrs. Brock's came to see Mrs. Heald, she staied a good while.This evening Mrs. Sanford and Miss Lue came to give Father two letters, the did not stop.When I took the horses to water Grant jurked away from me. Ich habe meine Aufgaben wieder nicht konnen und ich sollet mich scaamen [Again I did not know my assignmetns and I should be ashamed of myself.]Tuesday, January 30, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Yesterday evening I went down to Mr. Smith's store, to tell him to come by here as he came home, he had shut up, so I had to carry the medicine up there, (as that is what Father wanted, I had a good walk, when I came home they were eating supper, Today Mother has been ironing the clothes.Father has gone in the country ten miles [.] he has not got back yet. Yesterday I took a music lesson, I have taken a new piece [.] it is very pretty, the name of it is the "Evening stars waltz," it is awful hard. This eveing Mrs. heiskel and mrs. Fessenton came to see Mother. This evening I have got an awful headache.Ich hatte alle meine Aufgaben schlect germacht. [I did all my assignments poorly.]Wednesday, January 31, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day a little cooler than yesterday.Yesterday evening I commenced to make me a pair of stilts, I did not get through, if I have time I will finish them this eveningYesterday Mother took a walk. Father has had the sick-head-ache all day, so I went up to Mrs. Cooper's to tell her that Father could not come up.Today I got through my lessons in pretty good time, but I might have done better.I went down to get Mother 2 oz. of sitress [citrus} and 3 lbs of butter, as it was on the way.I took a letter to the post office for Marie. This P. M. Gritmann came to see Marie.Ich hatte meine Aufgaben besser. [I did my assignments better.]February 1, 1866Yesterday afternoon Mother made some cake, she is iceing them this evening, she is going to invite some of her firends here. tomorrow evening.Today I got throught my lessons in pretty good time, but not as early as yesterday.Today I took Grant down to the creek and game him a good washing, I tell you he needed it, but he did not like it, he tryed to get away from me.Yesterday evening I made me a pair of stilts, but they are not much count.This evening they are looking for Mr. Sanford.It has been rather a cold day, but not disagreeable.Ich konnte meine deucsche Aufgabe nicht. [I did not know my German assignment.]Friday, February 2, 1866.It has been a very pleasant but cold day. Yesterday Mr. Sanford came. Today Mother has been making preparations for the supper tonight, Father bought lots of nuts.Today I did not get through my lessons till late, I will try to do better tomorrow.Today Mrs. Heald told me that she had just got the news that her brothers wife was very sick with the smallpox.I habe got an awful cold somehow, but I do not know how.This evening I went down to a store to get some bottles, but the storekeeper had gone away and the clerk did not know witch [which] ones, so Father had to go [.] he got them [.]Ich hatte alle meine Aufgaben schlecht. [All my assignments were poorly done.]Saturday, February 3, 1866.It has been a very cold day. Last night mother had a supper for the singers, we had oysters oranges ane every thing else that was good, Mrs. Ogden and Mr. Ogden were there, I went up to Mr. Cooper.s store to get some suger and tea, Mother and I waited on the table, I tell you I did not have to fly around and Mother too, after they all got through eating Mother and I ate; I ate so much that had the "louns auf" awfully, I nearly burst; they sang [.] after they had sung a good while, they had refreshments, Mother gave them wine and cake, nuts and rasines.This evening I did not get done my work very early.Ich war die ganze Woche trage. [I was lazy all week.]Sunday, February 4, 1866.It has been a very pleasant sunday. This morning I went to sunday school, Annie Brownlow was not there to day again, after I came home Mother and I went to church, it was pretty well filled, Mrs. Maynard and the Cowans' were there.This evening Father and I are going in the country, I am going to ride Grand and Father Billy, I expect we both will freeze on the road. Today Mrs. Odgen was at church, she sang in the choir just as usual, she had on a bonnet, she looks a sight better in it, the night they were here her Mr. O. said that he wanted to set up in the choir, but Mrs. O. said he should not, and to day sure enough he did not, but I guess he said it in fun.Ich hatte meine Verse nicht sehr gut. [I did not know my verse very well.]Monday, February 5, 1866.It has been an other very pleasant, but awful cold day.Yesterday evening Father and I got back in good time, I had a splendid ride, it was awful cold, but I was not cold any place except my face, I was all bundled up, I had on my over coat and scarf both, we wend out to Mr. Cruze's, it is not the Cruze I know, it is an older gentleman, as Father bought Mother a nice whip. I took mine. Today I took a music lessons, I was very late as did not get through my lessons till late, I was two hours' behind in my lesson's.Today Dr. Minor arrived, he did not see Father as he was in the country.Ich hatte meine Aufgaben schlecht. [All my assignments were poorly done.]Tuesday, February 6, 1866.Today has been a very cold day.Today I knew my lessons but did not get through till late as my German reading took so long, and arithmetic too, I will try to get through earlier tomorrow.Today I took Grant and Billy to water, after I came back, I took Billy up to the blacksmith shop, and had him shodd, I forgot to go afer him till late this p. M.Dr. Minor came to see Father but he was not in.This evening I have got the headache awfully.Yesterday evening Mr. Heald's coal came, it is very nice.This evening Mr. Sanford came to see father [.] he staid a good while [.]This evening Mrs. Heald said that she went into the store, it is very nice.Ich war heute langsam. [Today I worked slowly.]Wednesday, February 7, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, and not so cold as yesterday, it began to sprinkle this morning, but it cleared off and has been pleansant ever since.Yesterday evening Dr. Minor ate supper with us, he staied here a good while after supper.To day I got through my lessons in pretty good time, I might have done better, any way I was through earlier than yesterday.Mrs. Wicks gave Mother a music lesson this morning.This evening all of us are going up to Mr. Hume's to tea, Mother said that Mrs. Hume.s told her that Katie said "to say my name loud so there would be no mistake."Mrs. Euyster came to see Mother.Ich war heute besser. [Today I did better.]Thursday, February 8, 1866.It has been a dark, sultry day.Yesterday evening Mother, Father Mr. , and Mrs. Heald, and myself went up to Mr. Humes [.] they had a good supper, after we were through eating, the big folks went in the parlor, and little folks stayed in the dinning-room, we plaied for each other, I played a duet with Katie, she can play better than I can, we got home about ten oclock.To day Uncle Bob has been cutting up the wood, I guess he will get through this evening.I took a music lesson, Mrs. Wicks is going to have me take dixy with varriation's she says it is pretty.To day I did not get through till late, I will try to do better tomorrow.Ich war heute wieder einmal trage. [Today I was once again lazy.]Friday, February 9, 1866.It been cooler, a good deal than yesterday. Today I did not get through my lessons again till late, (und ich glaube ich bin mir _________) (Today Bob carried out all the manure in the stable.This morning Father said that some of the goods had come.Mother has not been feeling wel for two or three days, I hope she will be better soon.Mr. Haber came and fixed the piano. Dr. Minor came to see Father, he did not stop as he was not in.This morning it was so dark that I did not think it was time to get up, so when it got light I found it was late, I will not be fooled tomorrow.Ich hatte meine Aufgaben wieder nicht recht. [Once again I did not have my homework correctly.]Saturday, February 10, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Yesterday evening Dr. Minor ate supper here, he stayed a good while.This morning I went down to the Drugstore and got some gumarabic, I got it of Mr. Albers.To day Father and Mr. Heald have been down to the new store unpacking goods, they did not come home to dinner till we were all through.This afternoon Mother has been feeling awfuly, I told her yesterday that I would go after the Dr.This evening I had to go up to the new store and get some oil but just as I was putting on my boots, Katie Humes came to see Father but he was not in, so I went with her up to the store.A load of sawdust came.Ich war heute nicht fruh fertig. [Today I did not finish early.]Sunday, February 11, 1866.Today Mother has been very sick all day, she has not been able to set up any all day, I hope she will be better tomorrow.So today I as mother was sick I had to go to Sunday class alone, I set with Sam Simcox'sThis morning I went to Sunday school, there were a great many there, all of our class was there.Johanna came to see Mot[her] she stayed a good while.This P. M. I did not go up to Mr. Spences as I did not get through my verse's early enough. Marie goes to church now most every sunday night, I hear her come home when I am in bed.This noon I only had to water Grant.meine Mutter is sehr wnwohl. [My Mother is quite sick.]Monday, February 12, 1866.To day Mother has been a little better, she has been able to sit up. It has been a dark rainy day, it rained right hard in the night. Today I did not get through my lessons till late.Marie washed the clothes but could not dry themn as it rained. Yesterday evening Anna Baxter came to see Marie, she said that Mrs. Esprandear is going to Switzerland next month, and Marie wants to go.To day Father not been down to the store as much as Saturday.This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson.This morning somebody brought Father some potatoes.To morrow I am going to get through my lessons good.Ich hatte meine Aufgaben gar nicht recht. [My assignments were not correct at all.]Tuesday, February 13, 1866.To day I knew my lessons pretty well, I did not miss any.This morning Mother was up, and felt quite well, but just before dinner she was taken back, she has been in bed ever since.It has been a very pleasant day. At the dinner table Mrs. Heald said, that "this morning, a negro soilder shot a white man, and thnis evening the negro is going to be hung."This morning Mrs. Lewis came to see Father.Father was a good part of the day up to the store again.This evening Mrs. George Smith came to see Mother [.] she staid a good while.Ich hatte meine Aufgaben besser, aber ich war ungeschickt. [My homework was better, but I was clumsy.] Wednesday, February 14, 1866.It has been a dark rainy day. Today I did not know my lessons hald as good as I did yesterday, I will try and do better tomorrow. Yesterday evening Father saw that negro hung, he was hung in Mr. Crozier's lot, on a tree.Yesterday evening I made a pair of stilts, they are better than any I have ever made yet, I had a good time walking on them. Yesterday P. M. Mrs. Sanford came to see Mother.To day Marie has been ironing the clothes, as she had to wash the dishes and do the other work she did not get done as early as Mother did.To day Father got a letter [.] I do not know who from.Ich hatte meine Aufgaben nicht gut, aber ich war nachher ziemlich flieBig und war fruh fertig. [My homework was not well done, but later I was rather dilligent and got through early.]Thursday, February 15, 1866.It has been the coldest day we have had this winter, I have been froze up most all day.To day I did not get through my lessons till late, I will try to do better tomorrow.To day Father had been ailing, with the sick headache, although he has been down to the store a good while.This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson.Mother had been a little better today.This evening I took a music lesson, I took some more on, "The Starry Night.:"yesterday Uncle Bob. took the Almanacs down to the store.Ich war heute nicht guten Verse und hatte meine Aufgaben nicht recht. [I did not know my verse well and did not have my assignment correctly.]Friday, February 16, 1866.It has been another very cold day, I will be glad when warm weather comes.Yesterday evening Mr. Heald, and Father brought a lot of Almanacs home to fix after tea Mr. Sanford, Mr. and Mrs. Heald and Father put the leaves in.Uncle Bob, has been chop[p]ing up the wood [.] I donot think he will get through this P. M.I did not get through my lessons, again till late, but earlier than yesterday.Last sunday I saw Sam Simcox, he said that he would take my paper, and to day I met another boy, he said that Sam. told him about it and he is going to take it.Ich war diesen morgen nicht brav. [This morning I was not well behaved.]Saturday, February 17, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. This morning I went up to market after some meat [.] it cost $1.50.This morning I went to see the soldiers, just lots of soldiers have come back, they are having a dress parade now.Mother is almost well now, she is practicing.To day Uncle Harry came after the segars and Almanac's I helped him carry them to the wagon.After I get through writting my Journal and washing I am going on the ice.Today Father has been most all day down to the store, I will be glad when they get it fixed.Ich war heute nicht fruh fertig. [Today I did not finish early.]Sunday, February 18, 1866.It has been a dark rainy, gloomy, Sunday. Yesterday eveing George Baxter and I had a splendid time on the pond, every once in a while we would run over each other, just as soon as I would touch George he [would] slip and fall. This morning I went to sunday school, After I came back, I went to church, Mother did not go as it was so muddy, the text was "Pray without ceicing [ceasing.]"Today I got through my lessons in pretty good time, I went up to Mr. Spence's singing, it is very muddy, I had a good time singing, there were a very few there on account of it being so muddy and rainy.Ich war heute fruh fertig. [Today I finished early.]Monday, February 19, 1866.It has not been a very pleasant day. To day Marie has been washing clothes, Mother did not help her wash but helped her in her other things.This morning Father took an old bridle and made a halter of it for Billy.This morning Grant layed down in the stall so that he could not get up, Father had to pull him up with the halter, he has got a shoe off [.] Father says that I must have him shodd all around tomorrow.Mr. Heald brought up some lamps from the store, to day.Father has not been down to the store, as much as he generally is.Ich hatte meine Aufgaben schlecht. [All my assingments were poorly done.]Tuesday, February 20, 1866.It has been a very pleasant ay, a little cooler than yesterday.Last night there was a fire, Father thinks it was down where Mrs. Cruches lives. I did not get throught my lessons till late, I am going to get throught early, if it is possible.I took Grant to water [.] when I come back, I took him up to the shop to be shodd.Yesterday evening the folks fixed almanac's. Mr. Heald can put the leeves in very fast.To day Father thought he had lost his buckskin's, but Mother found them in his coat pocket.This evening Mrs. Marret came to see Mrs. Heald.Mrs. Sanford came to see Mother.Ich hatte meine Aufgaben schlecht. [All my assignments were poorly done.]Wednesday, February 21, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. This morningMrs. Wicks came and gave Mother and music lesson, she has taken a peice names "Bonepart crossing the Rhine," she says' it is very pretty, it is minor. I did not get my lessons again correct. Yesterday evening Father did not feel well [.] he is a great deal better today.The negros have a dress perade now every day of the negros, they have got a splendid band, it is composed principly of negro men.Mrs. Wohlnsund and Johnnie came to see Mother, she is here yet. This P. M. Mrs. Ogden and Miss Adele came to see Mother, when she passed them the apples, Mrs. O. said that she never refused.Ich hatte meine Aufgaben wieder nicht recht. [Once again I did not have my lessons correct.]Thursday, February 22, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Yesterday evening I had a good time walking on my stilts, but I fell down, just as I generally do; Mr. Heald laughed at me, as soon as I got up, to pretend as if I thought it fun to fall; I pulled off my hat, and laughed too.Yesterday evening when Mr. Wholwend came to get his bucket, Father had hom butcher up the quarter of meat that he bought, he ate his supper here.This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson, I am going to take one this evening.I did not get through in good time again to day, I will do better tomorrow. To day I only had to water Billy [and] Grant.Ich war heute trage. [Today I was lazy.]Friday, February 23, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Last night the choir met here, Miss Buel said that I could play splendidly, but I did not believe it, I was asleep along time before they went away, I did not hear them go, I went over to the church with Father to get the singing book, I did not set up later than nine oclock.Last night I had to take some salts, I tell you, they are nasty, "did you ever take any?" they are not as bad as caster oil though. I did not get through till late. I only had to water Grant, as Father took Billy, I had a good ride. 
				This morning I got up earlier than I did yesterday, but not early enough.Ich war heute ungeschickt. [Today I was clumsy.]Saturday, February 24, 1866.Last night the wind blew awfully, it blew down some of the chimnies at the court house, and the chimny broke a hole in the roof, it blew down Dr. Paxton's chimny, too, in the country it did worse than in town, it tore off a good many roofs, it has begun, to blow so early this P. M. that I am afraid we are going to have another windy night.Today I got through my work in good time, I have just been fixing up my old play box, I have got a great many of Franks play things, if he ever comes back I will give them to him.I has been a pleasant day, but it is very muddy, on account of it raining last night.Ich war heute fruh fertig. [Today I finished early.]Sunday, February 25, 1866.It has been a very pleasant but cool sunday. This morning Mr. and Mrs. Heald went to our church, as there was no preaching at theirs.Yesterday Herman Schenck, came to see me, he stayed a good while, we played marbles a little while, George Baxter gave him sexteen. Yesterday evening I watered Grant and Billy, as I could not water them at noon as it was raining then.This morning Father went away on horseback, and had not got back yet. Yesterday Father got a letter from Emma.I do not know a great deal to say as Mother and I did not go to church.Ich war heute fruh fertig. [Today I did not finish early.]Monday, February 26, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day but rather cool this morning.This morning I got up at four o clock, but of course I went back to bed, I did not get up the second time till it was most six. Yesterday evening I got through reading teh book names "Kenny," I have begun to read "The Idols in the heart," I like it very much, I began to read it once before but I could not read it once before, but I could not read then as good as I can now, and did not like it.I did not get through my lessons till very late, I will do better tomorrow.Mrs. Heald took a music lesson this morning I took one this evening, I have finished my piece.Ich war heute ein schlechte Knabe und hatte alle meine Aufgaben nicht recht. [Today I was a clumsy boy and did all my assignments poorly.]Tuesday, February 27, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, I knew my lessons pretty good except my German, I did not get through till very late, because I was slow, I will try tomorrow to do better.Yesterday evening Father had the headache, but he has not had it today.Yesterday that German that works down at Mr. George Smith's came to see Mother, he staied a good while. To day Mother has been ironing the clothes, she got through in good time, just the reverse from me.Today I only had to water Grant, as Father watered Billy, I had a good ride.Ich hatte meine Aufgaben ziemlich gut, aber ich war sehr spat. [I did my homework rather well, but I finished very late.]Wednesday, February 28, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. This morning Father made a hot bed, (as the old one was so rotten that it was good for nothing.) To day Bob has been working on the garden, I do not know whether he is going to plant any or not. To day is the last day of Winter.This morning Mrs. Wicks came and gave Mother a music lesson. This morning John Baerziger came here.father bought a little fork to work in the flower bed this morning, it is only to be used by one hand.I did not know my lessons as good today as I did yesterday.Ich hatte meine Aufgaben nicht gut. [My lessons were not well done.]Thursday, March 1, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Yesterday Mr. Wadsworth came back he staied all night and ate his meals with us, this morning  Mother and he took a ride,  Mother
				   took him around to the forts, he went away this noon at half-past twelve.This morning John came here he is going to stay at the store, he helped Father cut out the legs to the work bench. This morning I got up at ten minutes after five
					Marie and I just worked to pile the shingles up, I euvvyied while she got an armfull reddy. John is going to sleep
					here and eat here, he, is studying with me now.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, March 2, 1866.It has been a delightful, warm pleasant day. Mother told John to wake me up in the morning early, (it is very light now even in the night,) he got up when he thought
				   it was day brake, he came and woke me, I got up and we both went out to the stable together, it happened that Father had to go away about the same time, he heard me
				   open the stable door, he thought he had caught a thief certainly, as soon as he got to the door he hollowed " hollow, " he did not see me as soon as he did,
				   he, asked me what " under the sun are you doing here this time of the night. it is only 12 o clock, John and I were supprised, but we went back to bedsentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, March 3, 1866.It has been very pleasant except this evening it began to rain.John cannot go home this evening as the Drugest will not be back till Tuesday, and John has to sleep at the store.This morning John and I did not get up as early as we did yesterday.To day I went down to the tailor shop to get me a suit cut, out of one of Fathers old suits, I tried to get a piece of clothe to make Fathers pants longer, but I could
				   not get any like it, I went again but of no use.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, March 4, 1866.It has been a delightful Sunday, a little cooler than yesterday.This morning John went down home on Grant, long before I got up, he would have walked if Mr. Wohlneerd had gone, but he
				   did not, John will be here this evening.This morning Mother and I went to church, it was well filled, I never think to say when Father goes, because, he does not set with us, he sets up in the choir, Mrs.
				   Maynard set with us.This morning I went to Sunday school, I knew my lesson good, George Baxter did not come as his eyes are so sore that he cannot read.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, March 5, 1866.It has been a very pleasant spring day, rather cool this morning. Yesterday evening Mother Mrs. Heald and I took a walk, we went as far as the gate. I proposed to go
				   that way because, I wanted to meet John, but he beat us he got to the gate before we did and so got here before we returned. I felt a little tired when I came to set
				   down.This morning John came over and helped me clean the horses, he did not come very early.Today Mother washing the clothes, she got through in good time just the reverse from me.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, March 6, 1866.This morning when I got up I found John out to the stable, working on the horses, he told me that night before last he heard somebody pounding on the back door of the
				   store, (he thought) he got up and hollowed but nobody answered, then he went back to bed, preasently he heard it again, he got up again opened the door very softly, and
				   set on one of the boxes out side, and at last he found out it was the wind blowing the windows, he said that he was scared, at first.I did not get through my lessons again till late, I will do better tomorrow.Today Bob has been here transplanting the current bushes.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, March 7, 1866.It has not been a very pleasant day. This morning Mother said that I got through my lessons in good time fore once in my life. I wish she would say that every day.I got up and started to cleane the horses, this morning before John came, it was five oclock, as I got up so early I had a good start with my lessons, I wish I could
				   get up that early every morning.This morning Mrs. Wicks came and gave Mother a music lesson, she has taken a new piece the name of it is the " old folks at home ", it is very pretty.Father and Mrs. Heald are going to take a ridesentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, March 8, 1866.Yesterday evening I had a good time playing marbles, I had to play with myself. I had two taros. I pretended one was Sam. Morrow, and the other my-self, I had a
				   splendid time. I am just beginning to realize how good it is to get my lessons. I knew my lessons good today again, I wish I could do that every day.The Drugist has come back, so John slep up here last night. This morning when I watered the horses they did act up awfully, Grant kicked Billy.Today some carpenters have been reparing the poarch, they have got almost done.This evening Mr. Haas came after Grant.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, March 9, 1866.Yesterday I got through my work so early, that I had time to do up my work before I went up to tak my music lesson.Yesterday the men got through fixing the porch, they also fixed the front and the office steps.Today I did not get through my lessons as early as I did yesterday, I knew my lessons, but I did not begin in time.This morning John discovered a swelling on Grant's back. I suppose it was caused by the saddle not being put on properly yesterday when we lent it to
				   Mr. Haws. I rubbed it this noon with some kind of horse liniment.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, March 10, 1866.It has been a delightful Spring day. Today I got through my work in good time.Right after dinner Mother Mrs. Heald and I went to Mr. Jackson's, we had a splendid walk, after we got out there we played marbles, then we played down
				   in the stable in the straw, we boys took the carriage down to the pond and washed it, by driving around in it, we had a good ride, I had a splendid time. I do
				   not know what kind of a time the other people had, before we started for home, I did not feel tired at all till I come to set down at home.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, March 11, 1866.It has been a delightful Sunday. Last night after I got asleep, I slept so sound that this morning I liked not to have got up. This morning I went to Sunday
				   school, they are not going to have school in the morning, any more, they are going to have it at 4 oclock in the evening, after I came home, Mother and I went
				   to church, it was well filled.This evening I went up to Mr. Spence's singing school, I had a good time. I am in Miss Henry's class.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, March 12, 1866.It rained in the night and was rather showery this forenoon, but it cleared of this P.M.Yesterday evening John came about 8 oclock, I was just getting the books for prayers.This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson.Father has been down to the store most all day today.To day I did not get through my lessons till late. I will try and do better tomorrow.This evening I took a music lesson, I took some more of the " wablings as eve ", it is very pretty. I am going to take the rest next time.This morning I went with a man to get the peddles at the church for Mr. Haws, and I broke the key.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, March 13, 1866.It has been a delightful Spring day.Today Bob has been working here. I do not know axactly what doing. This morning and this noon I watered the horses  I had a good ride. I droped my blanket
				   this noon.This morning Mrs. Steaphanson and her little girl came to see Mother and Mrs. Heald, she staied a good while.Today Mother ironed the clothes she got through in good time.Today I did not know my lessons very well, but better than yesterday, I will try and do better tomorrow.This morning I did not get up early I will try and do better tomorrow.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, March 14, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, but this evening it looks a little like rain.Today I did not know my lessons very well a-gain.Mr. Haws is fixing the organ over at the church, he got our laddersteps, and did not know that there was one there, and this morning Father wanted to use them,
				   so I went over there, but took the others, as ours was behind the organ and there were so many planks on it. Father is trimming the fruit-trees in the garden,
				   I think he is most through.To day Mrs. Bawziges came here.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, March 15, 1866.It has been a very pleasant, but warm day.This morning I did not get up till late, but I studied my lessons so good yesterday, that I did not have to look them over at all, I knew them the first time
				   and so I got through them in good time.Today at noon I made me a small kite, I suceeded pretty well but I do not know how it will be when I try to send it up, I do not know what put it into my head
				   to make, one, but it is just the weather.I am going to take a music lesson, this evening.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, March 16, 1866.Yesterday I had a good time flying my kite over in the next lot, as there tis too many trees in ours, I happened to come home just the right time so as to get
				   through my work.Yesterday evening Mother and Mrs. Heald got through the carpet for the store, I took it around.Last night it rained some, I do not beleive very hard.Today I did not know my lessons very good, but I know I will Monday, if nothing happens for I have studied my lessons good for then.This noon Father went in the country, I donot beleive he will be back till night.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, March 17, 1866.Last night the weather changed a great deal it has been cold to day.Yesterday evening I had a good time flying my kite, it is really the first kite I ever had that would stay up with out runing, but as a small kite takes more wind
				   than a large one, when the wind fell, my kite droped into a tree, and it took a good while to get it out, so it was late when I came home.Today Father has not been well at all, I hope he will be better by tomorrow.This morning and this noon I watered the horses, I had a good ride.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, March 18, 1866.It has been a delightful Sunday. This morning I got through saying my verses, all except 5 before church, as there was no Sunday School in the morning. This morning
				   Mother and I went to church, I liked the sermon, I liked it because Mr. Humes said something that I could understand, after church I watered the horses and ate dinner,
				   after that I ssaid the rest of my verses, and went up to Mr. Spence's singing school, from which I have just returned.This morning I went down to the post office to take a letter for Father.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, March 19, 1866.This morning it rained a little, but it cleared off, and has been pleasant ever since, Mothers clothes did not get dry early as she could not hang them out very early on
				   consiquience.This morning I got up earlier than yesterday but not early enough, I want to get up at least by half past 4 oclock.Today we had brown bread for dinner I tell you it was good, I was hungry too.Last night I had a good time reading in the little " Corporal ". I like it better than any book I ever read.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, March 20, 1866.It has been a dark, rainy, gloomy day. Today I did not get through my lessons till late.Yesterday when I went up to take a music lesson Mrs. Wicks said that Mrs. Hair's neice was dead, she died with the consumption, she asked me to go down and tell Mr.
				   Smith, to come up to the door, as she is going to have her funeral at the church.Mother got through ironing in good time, I was just the other way. Yesterday evening as I was coming from Mr. Smiths I heard Mrs. Heald playing on the piano at Mr. Locks.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, March 21, 1866.This morning it rained but this evening it looks as if it is going to stop for a little while. The other day I found our old hen with six little chickens the next time, I
				   have time I am going to make a chicken coop for them. I am going to fix it so the little ones can get out, but that the big one will stay in, I am going to make out of a
				   saw bench.Today I knew my lessons pretty good but was late some how or other. This evening the funeral of Mrs. Hair's neice came off Mother and I did not go, Father went.Mrs. Reeve and Miss Cary came to see Mother and Mrs. Heald.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, March 22, 1866.The weather changed a little yesterday it has been rather cool today. Today I knew my lessons pretty well, but I was lazy.This noon I only had to water Grant as Father was away with Billy, I had to go slow so as not to get him muddy.Yesterday evening I started to make my chicken coop, but did not finish it.This evening the choir are going to meet here, Mother made a little cake for them. Yesterday evening Ella Wicks came here, to get me to go over to the church with her,
				   she said that she was afraid to go alone, I thought she was a ______.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, March 23, 1866.It has been a rainy, dark gloomy day. Last night Col. and Mrs. Reeve ate supper here, they did not stay long afterwards, as thier stay in Knoxville was so short ( they
				   were going away today, they had another engagement.Last night the choir met here, I set up till a little after nine, there were some new members, Miss Sue Boyd Gen. and Mrs. Trobridge and a gentle-man that I did not know,
				   he can play splendid-ly, I was a sleep when they went away. To day I did not know my lessons a bit good I will do better to morrow.Father has not been very well.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, March 24, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. To day I did not get through till late. I mean my verses I will do better tomorrow.This morning and this noon I watered the horses, I had to go slow both times as it is so muddy. Marie is making soap now, out in the back yard, Mother watched it a good while
				   to day. To day I did not go out much I do not know much to say in my Journal.This evening I had my hair cut, Tom cut it, it is the negro that took care of Gen. Whites horse, when he stayed here, he cut it shorter than Dave Masters.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, March 25, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. This morning I said my verses before church, after I got through I went down to the post office to take a letter for Father, last night
				   as I was going to bed, they came after Father to go in the country he did not get back till this morning and then he had to go away again. This morning Mother and I went
				   to church, it was well filled, I had to give up my seat to a lady.This evening I went up to Mr. Spence's singing school, I had a good time, singing, I have just returned, after I get through I am going to our Sunday School.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, March 26, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. This morning I got up at 5 minutes after 5, and cleaned and watered the horses before prayers.This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson.Yesterday evening I had a good time reading my paper, right after supper I cleaned my shoes, so that I would not have to this morning. Yesterday evening I went to sunday
				   school, Dr. Minor envited our class down to his room, to see some curiosities.Yesterday Mrs. Crighter came to see Mother, she staied a good while. I did not get through my lessons in very good time.Mother and Father have gone to ride.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, March 27, 1866.It has been a delightful, spring day. Last night Dr. Minor came over here to get the keyes to the church.Yesterday Mother and Father got back just as I was feeding the horses, I believe Mrs. Heald is going this evening.Yesterday I only worked a little on my chicken coop, I am going to try to finish it this evening if I have time.This morning I woke up, and was thinking about getting up ( but I was " a grunten mightily " ) when I heard the clock strike three, I went to sleep, and woke
				   the second time, but this time I did not grunt a bit, I hopped out of bed in a hurry for I thought it was late.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, March 28, 1866.It has not been a very pleasant day, it rained a little and has been rather cloudy.Yesterday I finished making my chicken coop, but did not get the old hen, I tryed to catch her this morning, but she thought that I was going to take her young ones,
				   and flew at me, I did'nt try again.Last Tuesday Marie began to make soap, she is not through yet, I guess she will get done tomorrow. This noon I only had to water Grant as Father was away with Billy.This morning Mrs. Wicks came and gave Mother a music lesson. I did not get through in good time.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, March 29. 1866.It has been a very cold day I think, I expect it feels cold because, it been so warm.This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson, I took one this evening, I did not take any thing new, Mrs. Wicks says that she wants me to practice on my pieces more. This
				   morning and this noon I watered the horses, this noon Grant got a way so I had to get down and catch him, it took a little trouble. This evening I went up to the store
				   for a lb. of soda, Father gave me four lbs. I got a shade for Mother while I was there.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, March 30, 1866.It has been a very pleasant but cold day.This morning I got up ten minutes before five oclock, I watered the horses before prayers, Grant just out shines.Today I knew my lessons good but was long reading, and I beleive in every thing else.As today is " Good friday ", Mother went to church this morning, I drew and studied Mondays lessons. Father got a letter from Sister, Mother got one from
				   Mrs. Gredioj, enojnining why Marie did not write to her.Our old hen has not got but three chickens now, I suppose the cat got the others, I am sorry.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, March 31, 1866.It has been a very pleasant and delightful day.Yesterday evening a load of hay came, I had to help pack it. Yesterday evening Mother and Father went in the country, I was making a fire in the dining room when they
				   came.Yesterday after I got through my work, Mrs. Heald and I had a good time running in the yard.Today I knew my verses good, I wish I could say that every Saturday.As tomorrow is Easter Mother coloured some eggs, I am going to give some to the Baenziger boys.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, April 1, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, but very warm, I think the warmest this year.To day is Easter, I scratched an egg to give to Miss Mealia Morrow. Yesterday Marie went down to Mr. Whiteheads on Grant with John, she is coming back this evening, so
				   Mother had to be cook for two meals.This morning I went to church, Mother did not go.This evening I went up to Mr. Spence's singing school, I have not been back long, after I get through I am going to our Sunday school.This morning Father and Mr. Haws went in the country they have not got back yet.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, April 2, 1866.It has been another very warm but pleasant day.Yesterday evening we ate supper before sun down, when Marie came home she was supprised to find out that we were all through, ( except Father who did not come till a
				   good while afterwards ).I read very little yesterday because after supper Mother and I sang. Yesterday I went to Sunday-school, I have got a lesson for next Sunday.To day I did not get through my lessons in good, and did not know them.This evening I took a music lesson, Mrs. Heald took one this morning.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, April 3, 1866.Yesterday I had the sore throat a little, at night Mother bathed my feet and greased my throat, but this morning I was so hoarse that I could hardly speak. I have not
				   been feeling well either, but I did not go to bed, and while I was studing I forgot that I was sick.To day Bob has been here chopping the wood and cleaning the horses stables.This morning Father fixed a place for the calf to stay in. I do not know when it is going to be brought here.This evening Mother has gone up to Mrs. George Smiths she will not be back till supper time.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, April 4, 1866.It has been another very warm day, the thermotor was 84 while we ate dinner.Lasat night they had the concert over at the church, Mother, Mrs. Heald and I went, Father did too, but he did not set with us he was one of the performers, at recess, I
				   came home and went to bed, I did not like it as much as the grown folks did.This morning Mrs. Wicks came and gave Mother a music lesson, Today I have not been well, I have been feeling very dull and have had an awful headache all day, I have not
				   been saying lessons. The cow and calf have come. Marie is tickled.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, April 5, 1866.It has been another very warm day. To day I have not been saying lessons again. I have been working instead, I have begun to pile up the wood.To day there has been a man here washing off the white-wash that Mr. Britt put on, as it was so spotty. Uncle Bob has been here chopping up the wood that came yesterday
				   I donot beleive he can get done to day.Yesterday Mother bought three carpets. I think she is " all setting up " now ain't she.Mother has been sewing as hard as she could all day, and Mrs. Heald too this afternoon.I have been a little better today, but I have had the headache.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, April 6, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Last night it rained just enough to settle the dust and make it pleasant.The " show " that was here some time ago has returned, they have put it up over in the old lot back of our house, we could hear shouts of laughter over there
				   all day, I mean ever since they put it up.I went up to Mr. Cooper's store to get a package of tacks. Father got one before but Mother beleives somebody carried it off.Today I did not know my lessons at all.This morning Father brought home some shoes for me to try but they were too small.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, April 7, 1866.It has been a dark, rainy, cold disagreeable day. Father brought up some shoes for me to try they fit, so I kept them, this evening I went and paid for them, they cost
				   three dollars. Today I knew my verses pretty good, after I got through, I piled up wood, a load of wood came this morning and Uncle Bob. came up to cut it, he brought
				   his boy up, and he helped me some.Today Father has not been well at all, he has not been able to go out much at all.Last night Father had to go two miles in the country but it did not take him very long..5 Today I have had the sore throat a little.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, April 8, 1866.It has been a pleasant but rather cold Sunday.This morning I said all my verses before church. I had time to read too, before going.Father has been feeling better to day, he has gone out this evening. This morning Mother and I went to church, Father could not go, I liked Mr. Humes sermon very much.I did all my work except feeding the horses, before I went up to Mr. Spences, I have just returned from there, after I get through I am going to our Sunday school.Today I have had the headache a little.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, April 9, 1866.This morning it was very cool, but it grew warmer towards dinner time. Mrs. Heald took a music lesson this forenoon, I took one this afternoon, I am going to take the
					rest of " Home sweet home" next time, I had to wait today for Lucy McClung, she did not come till late.Today I did not know my lessons good and was lazy.Father has been away most all day. Yesterday Marie went to church. After supper last night, I had a good time reading I read some out loud to Father and Mother.Mother got though washing early, and began to iron I don't know wheather she is through or not.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, April 10, 1866.It has been a very pleasant, delightful day. Today I knew my lessons better, but I was Green as a cow. Yesterday evening Mother and Father went down to the store,
				   I was asleep when they returned, while they were gone John came after a paper of tacks.Mother took up the nursery and office carpets and washed the floor. This morning and this noon I watered the horses, I had a good ride both times.I have not been feeling very well to day, I have had the headache and felt dizzy, I hope I will feel better tomorrow.Our cow gives two quarts of nice milk.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, April 11, 1866.It has been a very pleasant delightful day. To day I knew my lessons but, I was slow, in every thing.Yesterday evening I had a good time runing in the yard, I pounded in some sticks for Mothers rose-bushes. This morning I got up at five oclock, I watered the horses
				   before prayers. I had a good ride. Mother has been taking up more carpets, I will be glad when she is done.This morning Father brought up some paper to see how we liked it, Mr. Haupt is going to paper the nursery and office.This evening Dr. Minor came after Grant.I took some corn to the mill to be growned.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, April 12, 1866.It has been a very warm, but pleasant day. Yesterday I took a bag of corn to the mill to be growned, I took it on Grant, but as Dr. Minor took him I had to go after it
				   on Billy. Yesterday evening I took some milk up to Mrs. Smiths. Father has not been well today he has been in bed all day, Dr. Paxton came to see him, I went after
				   Dr. Minor this evening, I hope Father will be better by tomorrow. This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson, I am going to take one this evening, as soon as I get
				   through writing my Journal.I watered the horses twice.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, April 13, 1866.It has been a very warm day, but pleasant. Yesterday Dr. Minor ate supper here, after I got through eating I took some more milk up to Mrs. Smiths, after I came back,
				   I had to go up to the store to get some nitre for Father.This morning I got up in good time and cleaned the horses.Father had to stay again all day in bed, but I think he was a little better. I hope he will be entirely well by tomorrow.Mrs. Sanferd came to see Mrs. Heald but she was not in. I did not know my lessons very good, I will try and do better Monday.This P.M. a gentleman came to fix the note on the piano that did not go.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, April 14, 1866.It has been a very warm day. Yesterday evening Mrs. Heald and I took a ride, we went down as far as the fartherest creek, and came home by the railroad, we had a
				   splendid ride. may be we will go out to Mr. Jackson's this evening.Yesterday evening that gentleman fixed the note on the piano splendidly, he did it in a few minutes.Father has been a great deal better but not entirely well, he has gone down to the store this evening. Dr. Minor ate breakfast here this morning.Today I said Mondays lessons, I knew them good, I did not know my verses as well.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, April 15, 1866.It has been a dark rainy disagreeable day. Yesterday evening Mrs. Heald and I went out to Mr. Jackson's, we had a splendid ride, I did not do much while I was
				   out there as the boys had gone away, we got home just in supper time, they asked us to supper out there, but we declined, after I had ate my supper I took some milk
				   up to Mrs. Smiths, they have moved down stairs, I am glad. Yesterday Mother told John to get her some gumarabie, but she thought he had forgoten it, so she sent me
				   up to get it, but as I got up there I met him comming out of the store with it. I went to church, Mother did not, I could not understand the sermon.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, April 16, 1866.It has been a rainy dark day. Yesterday Mr. Haws ate supper here, he stayed till almost eight oclock, I did not read much, for I had to hear him talk.Mr. Haupt has been here painting today, Herman Schench helped him some.This morning early Father was not well, he has been up although.Mrs. Heald took a music lesson this morning. I did this evening, I did not take any thing new.I went to get Mothers iron mended and to get her some tape, and cannot get the iron till tomorrow.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, April 17, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. To day I knew all of my lessons good but I can't be satisfyed unless I miss some thing, ( so Mother says ) so I had to miss my
				   German.Mr. Haupt has been painting here again.Mother has had a very large ironing as she has taken down the curtains and I do not know what else.This evening Mother has gone riding with Father, they will not be back till late.This morning I went after the iron, it was finished. This evening Mrs. Heald has gone a - way I donot know who with.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, April 18, 1866.Yesterday evening Mother and Father got back about seven oclock. Yesterday evening after I got through my work Mrs. Heald and I ran a - bout in the yard.This morning Mrs. Wicks came and gave Mother a music lesson. The old woman that helped clean the house last year has been here again washing.Yesterday Mrs. Sanford and Miss Lue came to see Mother and Mrs. Heald, but it happened that they were both out, Mother was riding, and I donot know where Mrs. Heald was.Today some men have been fixing the chimnies.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, April 19, 1866.It has been a very warm day. Yesterday evening Herman Schenck came over he stayed a little while.This evening I got up at half past 4 oclock, I watered the horses before prayers, I had a good ride. We are now eating breakfast at half past six. I begin my lessons
				   at half past seven.This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson, I took one this evening.Mr. Haupt has not been painting here today. I donot know why. I knew all of my lessons except my German, I am going to know that too tomorrow.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, April 20, 1866.It has been a very pleasant, but warm day.Yesterday evening Father was not well at all, they came after Father to go out to Mr. Mc Campbells, but I went over to Dr. Minors, and Father got him to go, but after
				   he got out there she was dead.To day I did not get through my lessons till late, I will do better Monday. This morning Mother waked me up, I was to tired to wake up alone. This evening I went down
				   to Mr. Newman's, and made a fire screan, but it was too large.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, April 21, 1866.It has been a very dark rainy gloomy day, it rained very hard, more or less all day, when I took the horses to water, I got soaking wet. I had to strip my self when
				   I got home.As it rained so hard, ( I suppose that is the reason ) Mr. Haupt did not come, Herman came to see.I did not get through in very good time I said Mondays lessons except my German, reading and Arithmatic.Yesterday Father got a letter from Emma, they have been having some kind of a concert, she says she is home sick.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, April 22, 1866.It has been a pleasant but very muddy day.This morning the horse got out in the garden, as soon as Marie heard him she jumped out of bed, and woke me, I just jumped out, pulled on my pants, sliped on my shoes,
				   and got him in, he did more harm to the carrots and beans than any thing else, I was very sorry.This morning Mother and I went to church, after I came back, I did not have to water the horses as Father and Mr. Heald had gone away.I took a little lettice up to Mrs. Smith.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, April 23, 1866.It has been a very disagreeable cold, rainy day.Yesterday evening Mother, Father and I went up to Mr. Cooper's, at eight oclock I came home. I think the rest of the folks went up to Mr. Humes. Today I did not
				   get through till late. I will try and do better tomorrow.Mrs. Heald took a music lesson this morning I did this evening, I had to wait on account of the rain. Yesterday evening I went to Sunday school they have got some more
				   teachers, Mrs. Wicks is one.Mr. Haupt has been painting again.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, April 24, 1866.It has been another cool, but not disagreeable day.Uncle Bob has been here whiping the carpets and cutting up the oats that Mr. Mc Campbell brought. Yesterday evening I went to the mill with a bag of corn to be ground.
				   I got there after it just as they were comming out of the door.I watered the horses twice it is very muddy.Mr. Haupt has been paint- the parlor, Herman and Mr. Bosch have been helping him.The other day I think Mother got a letter from, Emma, and some sampels, of her dresses she bought.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, April 25, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. This morning I got up in good time and cleaned the horses, and then I went down to the river and washed there, after the river falls
				   I am going to swim there it is too very high to do it now.Mother has been airing Mothers and Sisters old clothes, I don't know, but I expect Mr. Heald asked her if she had moved her store, he did when she was airing
				   Father's .Mrs. Wicks did not come today and give Mother a music lesson, I do not know why. I knew my lessons pretty good but nothing to brag on I tell you.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, April 26, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Today Bob has been here planting the butter beans, squashes and cucumbers, he is mowing the grass in the front yard now.Today Mother put down the carpet in my room, the front parlor chamber, and I beleive the back chamber. I put my drawers in order up stairs, they were all
					" helter skilter. "Mrs. Heald took a music lesson this morning I did this evening, I have finished my " La Barearolle " it is going to be pretty, I had to play for
				   Mrs. M. F. Smith and Mrs. Berdell.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, April 27, 1866.It has been a very warm, but pleasant day. This morning I helped Mother move out the piano and the safe, they had to eat out on the poarch, as the black
				   woman is washing in there.Yesterday evening Father gave me a book full of the different kind of carriages, I expect he gave it to me to get it out of the way. I did not know my lessons
				   good, and did not get through early. This morning I got up 25 minutes after four oclock, I am going to try to get up at four tomorrow.I did not have to water Billy this noon as Father went a way with him.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, April 28, 1866.It has been a very warm, but pleasant day.To day I did not say my verses at all, I made a fire frame in - stead. This morning I took the horse up to the store for Mr. Heald, as he had to go away some
				   where, at the same time I took Grant up to the shop to be shodd all around.Today I watered the horses twice I had a good ride both times.I do not know a great deal to say in my Journal, as I have not been, doing any thing but working.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, April 29, 1866.It has been a very pleasant but warm Sunday.This morning I did not get through saying my verses before church. Mother and I went to church, somebody were in our seat, so we took one on the left hand side,
				   the church was just full enough.After dinner Mother and Father went in the country, 7 miles, they did not get back till late.This evening I went to Sunday School, our class sets up where the choir sits.This evening Mr. and Mrs. Jones came to see Mother just as she was going away, they did not stay long.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, April 30, 1866.It has been a dark rainy gloomy day.Yesterday evening Mother and Father did not get back till we were eating supper. I expect they were hungry. This morning and this noon I took the horses to water,
				   this noon I took Mr. Haupts.Today Mother has been cleaning out the back chamber.Mrs. Heald took a music lesson, this morning I did this evening.Mr. Haupt has been painting here again.I did not get through my lessons in good time a bit.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, May 1, 1866.It has been a warm pleasant day. Yesterday and to day Mr. Haupt kept his horse here in the cows stable, at noon I took it to water, it is the largest horse I ever
					saw, it is a wagon horse, it is not a good riding horse he aasked me if I would like to swop Grant for him, I said " nary time ".This morning Mother and Father went in the country, I was studying tomorrows lessons when they came, Mother said she was very hungry.Mr. Gierzentanner. brought Mother some mattrises, I think they are very pretty.I did not know my lessons good.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, May 2, 1866.It has been a very warm but very pleasant day.This morning and this noon I watered the horses, I did not have to water nor clean Billy as Father went away with him be-fore I got up, I donot know exactly what time
				   it was.Today Bob has been here chopping up the wood, he did not get all through, I think he will tomorrow.This evening Mr. Sanford came after Grant for the drugist down at the store, Mr. S. has got a horse now, Mrs. Heald sasys it is very pretty.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, May 3, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, rather cool this morning.Today Bob finished chopping up the wood, I give him two pair of shoes of Mothers and a pair of pants and my old boots,he was " mightly " pleased.I did not know my lessons very good.Yesterday and to day Mr. Haupt has had a man to help him, I have to water Mr. Haupts horse most every day. I rode him today.Mrs. Heald took a music lesson this morning I did this evening, I did not take any thing new, I was a little too early.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, May 4, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, but rather cool, I got warm by runing up and down from the stable to the gate six times.Today I did not get through my lessons till late. I have not practiced any yet, I am going to say Mondays lessons tomorrow, I will try and say them better.This morning Mrs. Chiniworth came to see Father. Today I watered the horses twice, this noon  I had trouble with Mr. Haupts horse, he jurked loose, and I had
				   a little trouble trying to catch him.Mr. Haupt or his painter painted the front and back poarch.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, May 5, 1866.It has been a very nice day. This morning I got up at twenty minutes after four, I got through cleaning the horses in good time.Today I said Mondays lessons, Mr. Haupt painted or varnished rather the banesters, Mother has been varnishing a few of the chairs the piano stool etc.The men put on the last coat of paint on in the hall, he told me to be " mighty " careful, I told him I would try.This evening Albert Van Gilder came to see me we had a splendid time.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, May 6, 1866.It has been a very pleasant Sunday.This morning when I got out to the stable I found Billy loose, he had got down Fathers saddle, and got it very dirty, but I washed it. This morning Mother
				   and I went to church, after we had been there a little while, Father brought Mr. Brecket (I think that is his name) the drugist at the store in he is a very nice man.
				   he came from Rutland  Vermont.Yesterday evening Mother and Mrs. Heald went away they did not get back till eight oclock.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, May 7, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, but rather warm.Yesterday evening Mother and I went up to Mrs. Wohl-wends, I had a good time, we went over to Mrs. Engster while we were up there. John came down with us as he had to
				   sleep at the store.This morning and this noon I watered the horses, I have to lead Grant now.This noon Mrs. Heald and Father took a ride they did not stay long.I took a music lesson this evening Mrs. Heald did the morning, I did not take any thing new.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, May 8, 1866.It has been a very pleasant, but damp day.This morning I got up at half past four oclock, I got through in good time.I knew my lessons good except my German lesson, I will try and know that tomorrow too.This noon I swam the horses for the first time, the water was very cool, (I said for the first time I mean the first time this year), the horses liked it.Yesterday I gave Mothers black woman, a pen and penholder, and a slate for her boy, she was "mightily" tickled.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, May 9, 1866.It has been a dark rainy gloomy day. Yesterday evening I finished making my gisnnas tie pole, I put it on the
				   east side of the garden.Yesterday evening I took all of the old rags up to Mr. Hudiburgs and got 70 cents for them, Mother gave me twenty of it.To day I did not get through my lessons at all, I will do better tomorrow.Today the painter came to paint the poarch, but he did not, I expect it was too wet. I forgot to say , Tom. Rodgers has got back.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, May 10, 1866.It has been another dark day. This morning Mother wwent to church, there was no sermon at all, after church Mrs. Wicks came and gave Mrs. Heald a music lesson, she told
				   me to come quarter to six this evening as she is a teacher at Sunday school, and they have to meet for the picnic.I did not get through my lessons again till late, Mother says I do worse every day instead of better. This morning I got up at half past four oclock, I am going to try
				   to get up at four tomorrow.This evening I am going to take a music lesson.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, May 11, 1866.It has not been a very bright day to day again. Mr. Haupt has been here painting, I do not know exactly what. Herman painted the back poarch.To day I have had an awful head, ache, Mother says it is on account of getting through till so late. Yesterday evening Annie Baxter came to see Marie, I was studying
				   when she came.Yesterday evening at a quater to six I took a music lesson, I have taken a new piece the name of it is "Ferrys march" I think it is going to be splendid , if
				   I like it Mrs. Wicks is going to let me play it at the concert.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, May 12, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, rather warm.This morning I said Mondays lessons, I knew all except my German.Mrs. Baenziger came here to see Mother and Marie, she stayed a good while.This morning the polese man , came to see if we wanted any lime, Mother took half a bushel.This evening Mother and Father have gone out to Mr. Jacksons horseback.This evening I went down to the creek and bought me a top after I get through I am going to spin it,sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, May 13, 1866.It has been a very pleasant Sunday. Yesterday evening Mother got back just as I was eating supper, after I was through I took Grany and went after the meal, but the mill
				   was shut up so I could not get it.Yesterday evening Mother and I went up to Mrs. Smith's. Mother sent me up Mrs. Cooper's with a book, I came back easily, and set down on the poarch, Mother all
				   this while was thinking that I had not come, when Mother came out of the door, it scared me a little I was almost asleep. Father was not well today so Mother could not
				   go to church, Mr. Brackett and I went, the text was Col. 3 chapper 3 virse.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTeusday May 15th, 1866It has been a very pleasant day, Mrs. Heald thought it was cold. Today Mr. Spence's Sunday school had their picnic, most all of our school went.This morning I got up at a quater past four, but I did not get through till late, I will try and do better tomorrow, I did not know my lessons good either. Mother has
				   proposed a new plan, I will have to say my lessons, ( besides my arithmatic and reading in an hour, what I can not, I will have to say Saturday afternoon.Mother has gone to take a ride with Father out at Boyds ferry.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, May 14, 1866.Monday I forgot through carelessness to write my Journal, so I will try and make up for it today, I expect I have forgotten a great many things, I hope I will never
				   do any thing like this again. Today I did not know my lessons good, and did not get through till late.Yesterday I went down to the Drugstore to get some medicine for Father, it took very long to put it up, as Mr. Bracket had to strain it, he told me that he was not in
				   the habit of putting up medicine like they do here. Yesterday I went to Sunday school, we have got a large school now, there are ten in our class.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, May 16, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, but this morning it looked as if, we were going to have the fairest kind of weather.Yesterday evening Mother and Father did not get back till we had eaten supper. after they came, I went around to Dr. Paxtons on an erand for Father, from there I went
				   up to Mr. Cooper's to till Mrs. Wicks not to come and give Mother a music lesson, Snssa,, and Jim Paxton went with me,
				   I bought one of Sasn's tops, he came after the money this morning, I only gave him five cents.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, May 17, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Yesterday evening I played a while with my top and a while with my acting pole, I can play pretty good with my top now, I could not
				   hardly any at first.Today I did not get through my lessons at all in good, in fact I cannot get them all done to day. This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson, I did this evening. I did
				   not take any thing but the rest of my "Ferrys march"  It is going to be splendid, but it is very hard, as there are so many cords in it.The other day Mr. Flanican's baby got run over by a cart Father says he is doing finely now.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, May 18, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. I did not get through my lessons again till late. I be-leive I get worse and worse every day. Today I do not think Father has been very
				   well, especially this morning.Last night Father went to the lecture he said when he returned that it was the most obscure thing he ever heard.Today at 3 oclock Mrs. Heald and Mrs. Albers went riding, Mrs. Heald said they had a splendid ride.This evening Mrs. Engster came to see Mother, she staied a good while, Mother gave her some wine and cake.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturdaym, May 19, 1866.It has been an exceedingly warm day, it is now going to weak up for the cool weather we have been having. I don't like warm weather, but I must say I like it better
				   than cold weather.Today I said Mondays lessons, I knew them pretty good, I did not get through till late because I had to make up some practicing.This evening Mother went out calling with Mrs. Heald after she came back, there was a meeting at the church, she went over to that.I realy beleive it was to day the hotest day we have had this Spring.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, May 20, 1866.It has been a very warm pleasant Sunday.Yesterday evening I had a nice time playing with my tops, I would spin one, and would have the other ready, I wanted to see which would run the longest.This morning Marie waked me up at four oclock, and cleaned the horses, at five oclock Mother and Father went in the country, they got back at about half past nine.This morning I had to get to church alone, Mother did not go. I did not know my verses a bit good, I can not qoute through yet.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, May 21, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day rather warm,Yesterday evening after I came from Sunday school, I did up my stable work, after that I spent the rest of the evening in trying to find my Sunday school quiestions,
					they are What man went up a mountain bare footed, and for what purpose "the next one is "what two men were hidden in a well where was the well and who were
					the men "they are in the Bible of course, but I did not succeed in finding them.Today I did not have any lessons to say, as I said them Saturday.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, May 22, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Today they have been fixing up the Franklin house for a festavel that is going to be there tonight, it is going to be given by the church,
				   for the purpose of getting money to fix up the church, get carpets etc. Father has been around there a great deal today. I went around once to take some cake. Mother is
				   going I beleive.I did not know my lessons good, and I was not through till late.This evening the gentleman came to fix the piano, he did not have time to tune it, he only fixed the strings.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, May 23, 1866.Last night I went to the festival, with Mother and Father, it was splendid there were lots of children, we boys went out in the hall and played, there were little tables on
				   each side of the room with eatables. Father gave me some money and I could buy what I wanted. I always went to Miss Meslia Morrow's she would sell to me cheaper than to
				   any body else ; they had a little post office, the folks would write letters to one another and not sign their names. Mrs. Bointen was post Mistress, but she told me that she
				   was so tired of it that if I would stay there and every dollar I got out of the people she would give me 10 centes. I got 20 cts.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, May 24, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson, I did this evening. I did not take any thing new.Today I got through my lessons in very poor time, I will try and do better tomorrow.To day I feel more tired from the party night before last than yesterday. I caught a dreadful cold at the party, I expect it was because, when I was very warm I bought some
				   ice-cream and I ate so much it gave me a cold, I will know better next time, the other boys did the same.Mother and Father took a ride.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, May 25, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. This morning Mother and Father took a ride in the country, at five oclock, I got up a little after four and cleaned the horses, I practiced
				   while they were gone.Today I had a very singular drawing it was the mantle piece in the nursery, I drew a clock on it a candle and candlestick, two books, and a pair of vases full of flowers.
				   I think it is pretty.Today I have not been at all well, I hope I will be better tomorrow.Today I knew my lessons good, I wish I could say that every day. This evening the gentleman came to work some more on the piano.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, May 26, 1866.It has been a cool and pleasant day, it has been rainy, but I mean pleasant because it has not been so warm. Yesterday and today Mrs. Heald has been working on some pants for
				   Mr. Heald, Mother helped her some.To day I did not get through till late, and did not know my lessons or virses good.Yesterday evening that gentleman came and fixed the piano, he says he will call in again to see if any of the keys do not fall. I played some for him, he said that if I
				   perservered I could make a good musician.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, May 27, 1866.Today I had not been well at all. I took two big pills, I did not get up till about half past ten or eleven oclock, and Marie like me has been under the weather too, so
				   Mother had a good deal to do, she did not go to church. I hope Marie and I will be better tomorrow, I felt qwese all day.This evening Mr. Bracket came after some milk for the cats over at the store. I played a little for him, he loves music.This evening Johanna came to see Mother, I beleive she is here yet.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, May 28, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Today I have been a great deal better. I have had the head ache a little.As I said all of my lessons Saturday, I had only to say my arithmatic and reading. I got all through practicing and all by noon.This morning when I went to water the horses, I got one pair of the wheels that Mr. Jones made, their are the hind pair, he is going to make the fore ones some other time.
				   I have got the hind part most done.Mother and Father took a ride. I donot know when they will be back.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, May 29, 1866.This morning it rained very hard, and it was the coldest rain I ever saw, It has been very cool all day on that account.This morning all of us did not get up till late. I am going to do better tomorrow.Yesterday evening Father and Mother did not get back till late. Yesterday evening I took a music lesson, Mrs. Wicks would not give me any thing new. I have to practice for
				   the cocert.Yesterday Mr. Heald took over some milk for the kittens at the store, they have got two.Today I did not get through my lessons till late, I will do better tomorrow.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, May 30, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. To day it has been chilly, Mother and Mrs. Heald have had a fire.To day Mrs. Wicks did not come to give Mother a music lesson. Today Father gave Mother a splendid little hoe with a rake on the back of it.I did not get through my lessons till very late, I am going to do better tomorrow.I took the horses to water twice this noon, Mr. Jones hollowed out and gave me the other two wheels. I asked him what would they cost, he said a thanky, I thought that
				   was pretty cheap.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, May 31, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Yesterday evening after I got through my work, Father was not well, and they came for him to go down to Mrs. Jackson's, I went after
				   Dr. Minen, but I could not find him, so I suppose Father went.Today I knew my lessons good, but I did not get through my lessons till late, because I was not attentive. I will try and do better tomorrow.At the party, the other week, Father bought a cake, we had some for dinner. Mother says that she would not give half of one of the cakes she sent for the one F. bought.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, June 1, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, I think rather warm, any way warmer than it has been for two or the days.Today I knew my lessons perfectly and got through early.Yesterday evening I worked a long time on my wagon, it will take a good many evenings to finish it. I am going to ocqupy all of my spare time on it till I get it done.This noon I took a bag of corn down to the mill when, I watered Grant, I cannot get it till tomorrow. I had a good ride.Yesterday evening I asked Father if there was not something to put on the horses tails to keep them from dirtying up the stable. Mother said put on a diaper like babys.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, June 2, 1866.It has been a gloomy dark day. Yesterday Mother went up to Mrs. Mc Cean's after her,bascatun
				   I like it a great deal better than a mantila, Mother don'tYesterday evening I worked a good deal on my wagon.Today I said Mondays lessons, I did not know them a bit good. I will do better Tuesday. Mother said if I knew my lessons good, she would not make me make up for my music,
				   I left out, but as I did not I had to make it up.I went after the meal, I have just got back. I took Grant, I watered him, so I will not have to do it again this evening.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, June 3, 1866.Last evening I worked a long time in my wagon. I have done most every thing that I can do , here at home.This morning I said my verses all before church. I think it is a great deal the best way. This morning Mother and I went to church, we were early. I liked the sermon,
				   Mother wore her new bonet, bascatun and gloves, she is all "setting up" new.Today I wrote a letter to Emma, I told her every thing I could think about. I think it was about time I was writing any way.Mother and Father have gone in the country.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, June 4, 1866.It has been a dark sultry day. Yesterday evening Mother and Father got back about 5 o clock or half past 4, after supper, they were going out to Mr. Jackson's, but
				   when Grant was sweatty he layed dow in the dirt, and rolled, so I had to wash him, and he did not get dry till Father had to go, so he had to go alone. I was sorry.Yesterday evening Mr. Heald brought over his cats he said that they had not had any thing to eat all day, I pitied the poor little things, Marie gave them some milk and
				   toast, when they had ate so much that they would not eat any more he took them back.I did not get through till late.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, June 5, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. This morning I did not get up till late, so I did not get through till late. Last night the Irish had a kind of a meeting, as Ireland
				   was subject to Great Britain, the Irish are trying to get away from it, and the Irish in America are going to help them. Yesterday evening I took a music lesson, I took
				   some more of the "Hiss" , I suppose Mrs. W. will give Mother a music lesson tomorrow.I have had the headache all day and have not felt well other-wise. I hope I will feel better tomorrow. Marie has been down town and over to Mrs. Schencks I donot know
				   what for.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, June 6, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Yesterday evening I worked a little on my wagon. I have done every thing that I can do here at home, except I have to take my knife and
				   whittle off some of the exeltrees where the wheels are, because , as it rained on it , the wood has swollen and the wheels will not turn.Last night there way a very heard thunder storm, it lightninged and thundered longer at one time than, in any storm I ever experianced.To day I did not know my lessons a bit good. I will try and do better tomorrow, and did not get through till late.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, June 7, 1866.It has been a very warm day. To day I did not get through my lessons till late.Yesterday evening Mother Mrs. Heald and I took a run in the yard , they, two tryed to catch me. Mother caught me once, she is a runner, it was all I could do to keep
				   away from them.To day I worked two hours in the garden. I pulled up the weeds and the old pea plants and then spaded the beds up , I tell you I got tired. To day I took the horses to
				   water twice, maybe.Father and Mother are going out to Mr. Jacksons, then I will not have to water them this evening.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, June 8, 1866.It has been an exceedingly warm day. I have been nearly roasted all day.To did not get through my lessons till very late. I will do better tomorrow.Father has not been well all day, but this evening he went away. Yesterday evening Mother and Mrs. Heald went visiting, the folks had ate supper before they came. Father
				   and Mother yesterday did not go out to Mr. Jacksons as I expected, so I had to water the horses.To day I worked some more in the garden, I pulled up the weeds in the brick walk, I tell you it made me sweat.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, June 9, 1866.It has been another burning day. To day Mr. Jackson his Father and his wife came here and stayed. Mrs. Jackson, and Mother came in where I was practicing, they stayed
				   there over two hours.This morning and this noon I watered Grant this noon I took him up to the shop after I had watered him to be shodd. I have just been after him, he was shodd the other day,
				   but only on one foot as they did not have time to do it then.This evening Mrs. Heald was going riding with Mrs. Sanford, but on account of Grants sore, Father would not let him go.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, June 10, 1866.It has been a pleasant but warm Sunday. Yesterday evening I worked a long time in the garden, I pulled up and hoed the weeds. After supper Mother and Mrs. Heald went up to
				   Johanna's while they were gone, I tried to cut some grass in the front yard, but I mad bad work of it.This morning Mother and I went to church, Mrs. Heald went too, the church was crowded, Mr. Bracket was there, after church he came over here after some meat for the cats.
				   Mrs. Cooper came in after a drink.This evening I went to Sunday School, the question for next Sunday is, "What man obtained a wife by saying two hundred men."sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, June 11, 1866.This morning it was cool and looked like rain, but, it did not the rest of the day it has been very warm.This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson at ten oclock and has not got back yet, if I should stay that long I expect Mother would say "something".To day Bob has been here cutting up the wood, he took the sickel down to the shop and had it ground.This evening I took a music lessons, Mrs. W. is going to have her concert a week from tomorrow night, I am going to play "A stary night, Fost march and Elodna Polka.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, June 12, 1866.It has been a very warm day. This morning about half past one r two oclock, Marie came running up stairs and woke me up she said that Billy was out in the garden, I jumped
				   up pulled on my pants did not think to put on my slippers , I ran down put on my slipper and put him up, he done a good deal of mischief but not as much as the other time  I
				   get time I am going to fix a rail up.Yesterday evening Mother and I got up on the front porch, and fired fire crackers at the birds till the police-man told Mrs. Heald to tell us to "dry up".Last night Mr. Bracket came, I played for him a long time.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, June 13, 1866.It has been a very warm day, but pleasant day.Yesterday I swam Grant I was going to swim Billy but Father had to go away so I could not. This morning Mrs. Wicks came to give Mother a music lesson, she has taken a new piece.Today Father bought Mother a carpet sweeper, she likes it. Mr. Heald went away on the cars, I donot know where. Today I took the horses to water twice, I am going to swim them,
				   I have a little trouble to swim Grant but Billy does not care a bit, he goes out of his own accord.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, June 14, 1866.It has been another exceedingly warm day, it rained a little this evening. This morning Mrs. Heald took a music lesson, I did this evening, I took some more of "The Kiss",
				   I will not have to come Monday as Mrs. Wicks will be practicing , and fixing up to Baptist church.Every evening now I swim the horses, the water is very warm. Yesterday evening Mother and Mrs. Heald went up Mrs. Sanfords, they got back about half past eight.Yesterday evening Herman Schenck came to get a whitewashing brush that Mr. Haupt left here, when he was painting here.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, June 15, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Last night, I wwent down to the river to swim the horses, but of no use, it began to lighting and thunder, and Grant was so afraid that if I
				   had tried to get him in by whipping him, he would have put me in the water. Today the Gredig family got back, we were all glad to see them , especially Marie, when I went to
				   water the horses I let Johnie ride Billy. he says that he used to ride him when Willie and he attended to him. Father has not been well all day, I went up to the post office for him.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, June 16, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Last night Mrs. Gredig , Mary and Johnie slept he, before bed time John and I climbed upon the tree in the back yard and threw fire crackers at
				   the birds, we played on my acting pole a long time , . John even beat me all to snap.Today Father has a good deal better, but not entirely well. I hope he will be by tomorrow. I knew my verses pretty well, but Mondays lessons poorly. Mother bought I guess about
				   a good half peck of June apples for, twenty five cents. I have not ate any yet.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, June 17, 1866.Yesterday evening Conrad Bainziger came here and told Mother that , Mr. Weishaupts baby was dead, so after supper Mother and I got into the horses and went out to Mr. Jackson's,
				   to tell Aunt Anna. we got back I guess about eight oclock.Today I knew my verses pretty good . I said all of my verses before church.Today at twelve oclock Father got a buggy , and Mother and he went down to Mr. Weis haupts , I went too on Grant, the child was buried while we were there, after wards all of us
				   ate supper out there  I tell you it was good. Father and Mother have not come yet I beat them.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, June 18, 1866.Yesterday evening I got all through my work before Mother and Father came , Mother says that she loves to ride in a buggy.To day I did not get through my lessons till late. The Gredig family are still here.Tomorrow night Mrs. Wicks is going to have her concert, I dread it, the married folks are not going to perform. Mother says she thinks they are slighted.Today it has been a very cool day, it rained a good deal for a while. Yesterday Father got a letter from Emma.Every day I let John ride one of the horses, he likes to ride he says.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, June 19, 1866.To day I said tomorrows lessons. To day the Gredig family have gone to live in Mr. Adkins house.To day Mother ironed the clothes, but she is not like Molly, she gets done about ten oclock in the morning , Molly used to about candle light.To day Mrs. Wicks has been preparing for the concert this evening ; I tell you I had to practice; Mrs. W. sent for me to come down there and play my piece over, but when I got
				   down there , the man was tuning the piano, so I had to wait, but it took so long I told Mrs. W  that I could not stay.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, June 20, 1866.Last night Mrs. Wicks had her great concert , it was better than the one she had last time, it did not last so long either, there were just enough , I played my pieces without
				   any mistakes, was not I glad when it was over, Father Mother and Mrs. Heald went I donot beleive Mr. H. did.Yesterday evening Mother and Father did not get back till eight oclock , Mother says that she had to hurry to get ready to go to the concert.To day Willie Gredig has been working here, I don't know exactly what, something in the garden, he says that he had rather work here, than any other place.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, June 31, 1866.It has been a very pleasant warm day. Yesterday evening Sammie Merrow came to see me, he stayed a long time, Mother gave us a pack of firecrackers, we threw them at each other ,
				   Sam. made me run some times , he played on my gimnastic pole, it takes him to turn over, he can go just like Grant on the ground.Yesterday evening I went up to Mr. Cooper's to get my piece of music, but I could not find it. To day Mrs. Smith has been spending the day here, at dinner time I went down
				   and asked Mr. S. to come up also, he said that he would have to do what his wife said.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, June 22, 1866.It has been a warm day, it rained right hard a while this morning. To day I did not get through my work till late. I will try and do better tomorrow. I knew my geography,
				   spelling and verses pretty good but, my German and arithmatic poorly.To day Mrs. Gredig came to see Marie , she did not stay long, she brought her a pair of shoes.I did not get up till late this morning I will try and get up earlier tomorrow, I will not be cheated by it being so dark as I was this morning.Yesterday I took a music lesson, I took some more of the "Kiss.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, June 23, 1866.It has been a very warm day. This fore noon I was not well at all . I said my lessons and verses never the less, and I knew them pretty good too; laid on the bed and on the
				   lounge most of the time .I have been feeling better this after noon, I played some on the piano for Mrs. Baenziger, she liked it. I hope I will be better tomorrow, one happy thing I did was I did
				   not take any medicine.To day I took a bag of corn to be ground, I have just been after it.Johnie and Mrs. Baenziger are now here, Johnie can talk.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, June 24, 1866.To day I have been feeling a great deal better, in fact I could not see that any thing was ailing with me at all.To day I knew my verses pretty good , I wish I could say that every Sunday.Mother and I went to church, there were not a great many there , I suppose it was on account of old Mr. House's funeral, Father had to go as he is a 'free mason', There
				   were, a  great many stranger's, I expect I thought so, because, there were not a great many ; so I could see better.Yesterday Mother bought some splendid June apples, but I was not allowed to eat any, on account of my stomack.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, June 25, 1866.It has been an exceedingly warm day, the thermometer was 85o this after noon.To day I got all through my work by twelve oclock, but I had to work to do it.Last Saturday Mother got through making my shirts. I like them very much, I have been wearing them all of the time, they are woolen, but instead of making me warm they keep out
				   the heat, I never had any shirts that I liked so much.Father bought a keg of beer, I think it is the awfulest tasting stuff , I ever tasted, Mrs. Heald says that if she wanted to vomit , she would taha that.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, June 26, 1866.It has been a very warm day. Yesterday I took a music lesson  I took some more of the kiss, if I ever get that learned, I beleive it is going to be splendid.Yesterday evening Mother and Father wwent out to Mr. Mc Campbells. As I was comming from taking a music lesson , I went to the Drug-store to get me a box for my pistols and
					their utensils, I had the pistols on the poarch , while I was fixing the parts in the box  Father saw my pistol "The iron clad" he asked me if I did not want to sell
					it and get a gun, as I would have one pistol any way, Mr. Heald said "yes" he could take it up to the store and sell it in no time, but I must not think too much
				    about it, for he may not be able to sell it.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, June 27, 1866.Yesterday evening we had an exceeding hard thunder storm , two of Mrs. Morrows trees were broken down. Today I knew my lesson pretty well except my German.Yesterday evening after I had played on my acting pole, I came in and read aloud to Mother in my "Easy Boy's book".As I was coming from watering the horses, I was taken with a very severe cramp in my side , I came home , put some turpintine on it but it did not do any good ,
				   Mother soaked my feet, put a poaltice on me and sent me to bed to sweat. I have been there ever since, I feel better now.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, June 28, 1866.In the bed still I am writing my Journal, I hope to get out of this gloomy prison before the 4th of July, because for one reason I hate to be sick the other is
				   I want to go down to Mrs. Baenzigers. Mrs. Smith sent Mother a splendid bouquet of flowers, they smell good too.Yesterday Mr. George Smith  bought a bugy for Mrs. Smith harness and all, it cost $400 (without the horse), I wish Father would get one for Mother.This evening Mrs. Heald has gone to ride with Mr. Albers, she did not ride Grant as his back is too sore.Willie Gredig took care of the horses.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, June 29, 1866.It has been a very cool but pleasant day.To day I have been a great deal better, I have been up and feeling well all day. This morning I took Mrs. Heald out to Mr. Jackson's , and then I
				   back with the horses, to get Mother, but Father said that he could not spare Billy , so I walked, out, we all staid till about 5 or 6 oclock, I did not
				   think about the time, I had a splendid time with the boys, we played hide in the oats field a while , then we went down to the creak , and the other boys
				   made a dam  I could not pull off my shoes, as I was afraid of catching cold.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, June 30, 1866.To day I felt very tired from yesterdays rides and romps , my knees felt as if every movement, I would fall down on the ground.Yesterday as Father was comming from Mr. Jackson's he had to stop at a house this side of Brownlow's to see Miss Annie Weishaupt's sister.I have been feeling very well today, but Father has been feeling just the other way, he has been in bed all day, I hope he will be better by tomorrow. Last
				   Thursday as I was sick , I did not take a music lesson , Mrs. Heald did.To day I did not know my lessons and verses very good, I hesitated too much.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, July 1, 1866.A long time ago, when Johanna lived down at Rennold's , Mother and I went down there on the cars, the there was an old lady there and she had a little boy
				   (some relation) staying there , but it happened that this boy was away while we were there.Yesterday a boy rang the bell, I went to the door, he told me that his name was Willie Helms's he is the boy that used to live down there , he is a very nice
				   boy, I like him too, he played some on the piano for me, he came here with he Uncle , and had to go back the same evening. I went down to the depot with him.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, July 2, 1866.It has been a very warm day. To day I will tell you some news, I ought to have done it Yesterday but did not have room, last Saturday Andrew Humes got back, he looks
				   just like he used to but is a great deal larger, Miss Delia Baxter, and also Miss Bell Mabry , but I am not sure that she got back the same time the others did or not.
				   Yesterday Mother and Mrs. Heald went up to Mr. Sanford's.Today I did not get through till late, I will try and do better tomorrow. Mrs. Heald took a music lesson this morning, I did this evening.The man has come to fix the piano.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, July 3, 1866.It has been a very warm but pleasant day. To day knew my lessons pretty good but nothing to brag of.Yesterday evening I learned how to "Skin the Cat" gimnastic pole, I nevr could before , but I was playing out there and Father came out there, I told him if I
				   had the courage I could do it, he told me if I would try he would catch me if I fell, I did and after a little , I could do it without any assistance, I done it three
				   times this morning in succession, I am going to try and do it 6 times by the end of this month.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, July 4, 1866.To day is the fourth of July , I had a good time.Yesterday evening Mrs. Heald and I went down town and got some torpedo'es , Mary Gredig gave me some this morning.This morning Willie Gredig and I went black berry picking, we did not get many, we had a good walk but I tell you I got tired.Yesterday evening Mother and Father took a ride, they got back about half past 8 or 9, they went out to Mr. Moses.I have not been saying any lessons today , Mother gave me a holiday , all of the other Ruerbun had one too, I will leave
				   you to find out what I mean.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, July 5, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day . Yesterday evening Mother give me a pack of fire-crackers, and I went down to Sammie Morrow's , and we poped them, I had a good time ,
				   I played some for Mrs. Morrow, and the young ladies . I staied till half past 7 oclock and then I played "science" on my acting pole for Father and Mother, Mrs.
				   Heald and Ella Lock, I can "chin the bar" nearly 6 time, can "skin the cat" without any trouble, and can hang "True Lovers Not," as I was
				   doing the last , Ella said "isant that " she said it so funny it made me laugh , I cannot not play now as my
				   right hand is blistered.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, July 6, 1866.It has been a very warm day. To day I did not get through my lessons till very late, I will try and do better tomorrow.Yesterday evening I was on my gimnastic pole when it came out of the hole, and liked to have got a fall, I have fixed it now so that it will not come out,
				   I cannot do much as my hand is so sore.Mrs. Cooper has been staying home all day. I watered the horses twice ,I will have to water them once more this evening, that makes me think , there no more hay
				   now, so the horses have to eat oats and corn.I do not know much to say as I have not been out.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, July 7, 1866.It has been an exceedingly hot day. To day Father said that he had engaged a wheelbarrow of Mr. Comstock, will not I be glad, I can carry out my manure in it. I hope it will
				   be a good one. I knew my lessons pretty good, I wish I could say that every day.I have had the head - ache all day, I hope it will be better by tomorrow.This evening Miss Annie and her sister came to see Marie. Mother scalded her foot, this A.M. I hope it will get well soon.This evening I took Marie's shoes and mine to be mended.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, July 8, 1866.It has been an other burning day. Yesterday evening I went after my shoes they cost 50 cents , he fixed them pretty good. Yesterday Mother and Father took a ride , they were
				   gone a good while.Willie Helms came up with his Father he stayed here all of the evening , he went to church, he is coming to go to Sunday school with me. I think he is a very nice boy , I
				   like him , as he  was here, I could not say my Verses this morning , so I had to this evening, I did not know them very good, I am going to say some of them again tomorrow.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, July 9, 1866.It has been another burning day. Yesterday evening Willie Helms came here to go to Sunday school with me, he went in the same class I was in , at night he came for me to go to
				   church with him, I have to get up so early that Mother thought it best for me to stay home, he went home this morning on the ten o clock train, he sasys that he will come and
				   see me every time he comes up.To day I got through my work in pretty good time  I said tomorrows verses. This noon I thought Father had been away with Billy (but he had not) so I only watered Grant , but
				   after I got home, I had to go again with Billy.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, July 10, 1866.It has been a warm but pleasant day. Yesterday evening, I went up to the Drugstore to get some ginger and some cabages that Mr. Jones sent us.Mr. Armstrong sent us a load of oats, I had to pack them.I knew my lessons good today, for a wonder, I like to say it once in a while , as it happens so "often."Yesterday evening I circled the bar once , I did it once this morning too, I will be proud when I can do it readily.I took a bag of corn to the mill to be growned, I can get it about sun down, Marie has got another bag ready to take, after the other is growned.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, July 11, 1866.It has been another exceedingly warm day. Yesterday Mother went to get her teeth fixed , but I donot beleive she could. Last night Father Mother and I went over
				   to Gen. Trobridge's , I took my music to play some, Mrs. Erui and her sister Miss Mc Farlane came over there
				   too, Mrs. Ecan play splendidly , she used to practice nine hours a day , her sister can play good , Mrs. Trobridge can play splendidly on the fiddle, in fact I
				   never heard anything like it, we got home about ten oclock, they had some splendid cake and lemonade.I did not know my lessons good.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, July 12, 1866.It has been a very warm, but, pleasant day. Yesterday evening Sam Morrow came to see me, we had a good time , I lent him my "Little Corporals", and he lent
				   me his "Young folks", I beleive they are better than mine.Yesterday evening Mother and Father Mr. and Mrs. Heald went up to Mrs. Smith's to a kind of a tea party, there is "no telling" when they got back as I
					was sound a-sleep. To day Maj. Beecher. and Mrs. Wicks were here for dinner, I waited on the table, we had "ice cream", berries , pudding , blackberry,
				   and tomato wine and every thing else that was good, I had to play some for them, I played an hour.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, July 13, 1866.It has been another very warm days. Last night Father and Mother, Mr. Mrs. Heald and I were envited up to Mr. Coopers to tea, Mother did not go, but all of the rest of us did,
				   we children played out of doors, till dark , and then we stayed in the parlor, while the others were eating supper, we ate at the second table , they had a good supper,
				   Mother told me to come home at nine oclock, but in starting could not find my hat, we hunted for it a long time , and at last Mary-Frank found it.Did not get through my lessons till late today , but hope to do better tomorrow.It looks a little like rain this evening.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, July 14, 1866.It has been a very warm day, I think the hotest we have had this year. Yesterday evening Johnnie Gredig came over here, we got up in the trees and
				   tryed to scare the birds away , but it did little good, we played gimmaster a while too. Knew my lessons and my verses pretty good today , ex-cept my German. Mr. Constock
				   promised to have the wheel barrow done by yesterday , but it was not, he says that he does not beleive he can get it done by next week.Father has picked out me a speach to learn, I think it is beautiful , have learned five verses.Mary Gredig came to see Marie , she stayed a good while, she helps her.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, July 14, 1866.It has been an exceeding warm Sunday, Father asked me if it was warm out, I told him, it was hot not warm.Yesterday evening went down the river on Grant to find a place to swim, asked Dr. Minor to go, but he did not feel like going. This morning we went to church, Mr. Heald too,
				   Mrs. Cooper sit with us, the church was just full enough, on comming home I saw Charlie Smith in a buggy waiting for his Mother, he got back from school the other day, Mrs.
				   Smiths Mother was there too.Yesterday evening Johnnie Gredig came to see me, we played on my gimnastic pole, till bed time.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, July 16, 1866.It has been an incessantly hot day. Yesterday evening went to Sunday school , there were not a great many there, guess it was on account of it being so warm, when it was
				   out took care of my horses ate my supper, after that I watered them , then read in Sam Morrow Young folks, Father has subscribed for me now, got one volumn yesterday , it
				   is a magazine, like it very much.Did not get through till very late, will try and do better to-morrow. Took a music lesson this evening, I had to wait a good while on account of Matha Rogan , I beleive
				   she is a new scholar, from the way she played.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, July 17, 1866.Another very warm day, I have been burning all day.It has been a very poor day with my lesson, will do better tomorrow. To day Willie Gredig has been cutting up the oats, he says it is hard work.Mr. Mc Campbell took the calf away , have have been tearing away her pen. Willie helped me some, the cow has been letting on at a great rate, I beleive she has been staying in
				   the stall all day.Father has been 16 miles in the country, expect he is rather tired. Mrs. Gredig came to see Marie she stayed a good while.We take ice now most every morning when the ice man comes around.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, July 18, 1866.Today it has been very warm again. Did not get through my lessons again till late, I will get them tomorrow.Willie Gredig has been cut-ting up the oats, he did not get throug tomorrow, he says he can get through about nine oclock tomorrow morning. The cow has been letting
				   on awfully about her calf , she has been staying in the stable a good part of the time. Mrs. Wicks came and gave Mother a music lesson, Mother has taken the mocking
				   bird now.Father went in the country about half past leven.Billy has not been out in the garden for two or three days, I beleive it is because I give him more to eat.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, July 19, 1866.This morning it was quite pleasant, but this noon it began to rain and has been sultry ever since.Knew my lessons pretty good I like to say that once in a while as I say it so often.Willie Gredig did not get through this morning and I beleive he will have to dig to do it by evening. Got up little after four this morning , am going to try four
				   tomorrow am I not getting smart.This evening I have to take a music lesson, have finished "my"Kiss" now, I beleive it is going to be pretty when I know it, there is a great many ords
				   in it. Got the headache a little this evening.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, July 20, 1866.It has been a dark sultry day. Yesterday evening Mother and Father took a ride , they got back about , half past eight or nine oclock, Mother said that I might go and see
				   Sammie Morrow, so after took my music lessons, ate my supper and went down there he was not there so came back, and about a half of an hour, went again but he was not
				   there, so I quit going for this day.Did not know my lessons at all good, hope to do better tomorrow.Last night Mrs. Heald said it rained very hard we all slept so sound that we did not here it, I expect it did the things good in the country.I have got the diarrhea a little.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, July 21, 1866.Another dark day.Went to hear the boys of Mr. Payns school declaim last night , it was at the court house, Father went too, I enjoyed it very much, Sam. Morrow - Jimm. Maynard John and
				   George North and a great many of the boys that I knew  John North brought down the house , in two of his passages , after he was through, he was requested by the
				   spectators to say it again, the name was, "The one horse slay" , Henry Ludlow's was good too , the name was "I have been to Washington to see the
				   grand revew", that would have been good if he had, had some life in it.Had my lessons pretty good.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, July 22, 1866.It has been a very warm Sunday. Yesterday evening I took a bag of corn down to the mill, but can not get it till Monday, after got back went down too Sam. Morrow's
				   to see him, we had a good time playing.This morning went to church with Mother, it not very full , contribution was taken up, all though it was not communion.Yesterday evening John North was down at at Sam. Morrows, he said that he got for a prise , for saying the one horse slay so well. I like him he and his brother George
				   are in our class at Sunday school. did not have any verses good.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, July 23, 1866.Yesterday evening the wind blew so hard that we thought there was going to be another storm, it blew limbs of trees down and signs, it broke one of our limbs pretty
				   near off, it got dark so soon that I had time to read a story in my young folks before bed time, I like them.This morning it looked like rain but it did not all day.Mrs. Heald does not take music lessons now, I took one this evening, Mrs. W. said I was improving, I told her "it was Mothers fault". Took the horses to be shod,
				   first, I got the meal.Did not getthrough till late, will try better tomorrow.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, July 24, 1866.Not a very pleasant day, it rained a good deal. Yesterday and to day I spaded up the bed where the onions used to be, the ground was very hard, yesterday but it, was soft
				   this morning as it rained in the night. Mrs. Gredig gets milk here every evening now, Mary comes after it, some times Johnnie comes too.Sunday before last Mr. Humes in church prayed for rain and this Sunday he thanked for it, Father says it has made the crass as much again. Did not get through my lessons
				   very early, will try bet-ter tomorrow.I had the headache for two or three days now right along, I beleive it is because I do not get through till so late.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, July 25, 1866.Took a little milk and a few peaches to Mrs. Smith, she was tickled she said that our cow was was a "cream "cow", after I got home played gimnastics.This morning Mother went over to Dr.     to get her teeth fixed , she come back to dinner, and went again afterwards again, she says she is afraid it will take him all this week .Did not get through very early. They are waceadumising Market street now will not it be nice. Had to water the horses twice, to day.I am going to make a chicken-coop the very next time I get the chance.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, July 26, 1866.Another very warm day, I will be glad when it gets a little cooler. Did not get through till late.Mother got home about 6 oclock yesterday evening , she had to go again today, I will be glad when it is done, know she will be.Yesterday evening I fixed the old chicken coop, but at supper Father said that he engag-ed a man to make one, right in front of the stable , I hope he will make a good one.Today Jae. Baenziger brought us a watermelon, and Catherine's berrie woman eleven gallons of blackberries . Had to water the horses twice this fore-noon , and I will
				   have to this evening, the river is rising.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, July 27, 1866.It has been another very warm day, I have been "roasted" all day. This morning Charlie Smith brought Mother a basket of nice tomatoes , he said they grew in their
				   own garden.Yesterday evening Mrs. Smith and her Mother came to see Mother, she was not here, Mrs. S. left a bieutiful     for Mother.Yesterday evening and this noon I swam the horses, Billy , layed down this P.M. in the river, he likes it, Grant does not. Mother is making blackberry wine this evening.I have had kind of a sore throat today, I can not swallow good, I hope it will be better by tomorrow.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, July 28, 1866.Not a very pleasant day rained some . Yesterday evening Mrs. Jones came here she is going to stay till Monday, and then she is going some place on the railroad to Mr. J.
				   relations.Father has not been well at all today , he is feeling better this evening , I have been a little under the weather too.Did not say any lessons today. Worked some in the garden. I watered the horses twice swam them this noon, Billy likes it Grant does not , I have to swim them seperately , and
					when Billy's tern come he tryed to lay down with me in the river.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, July 29, 1866.It has been a very pleasant Sunday . Yesterday evening I showed "sciene" to Mrs. Jones on my acting pole as the boys call it, she got frightened , she said it made
				   her arms ache to she me whirl around, I just laughed at her.This morning I went to church, Mother did not go, but Marie did , Marie said she did not understand much.Mrs. Jones went up to Johanna's and to her cousins after breakfast , and has been gone ever since.I am going to Sunday school this evening , but it is not time yet.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, July 30, 1866.Been a very warm but pleasant day. Yesterday evening Johanna came home with Mrs. Jones , Mrs. J. started for Morris town this morning, with her husband.As I did not say Mondays lessons Saturday I had to say them today , I knew them good, I wish I could say that always.Have got the headache awfuly this evening ,I hope it will be better by tomorrow, Watered the horses twice, swam them this noon.Went to Sunday school yesterday evening, George Baxter has gone away.Took a music lesson this evening , I am on my exercises now.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, July 31, 1866.Yesterday evening Mother got all through washing and ironing too , so this morning as Father went in the country , she went too, they went a little after 5 oclock, I got
				   all through except reciting till they got back, I did not know them very good.Yesterday evening the cow did not come home, so Johnnie (as he was here at the time) and I went after her but could not find her, and this morning when I was cleaning the
				   horses , I heard her mew, and when I opened there she stood as big as life.Mrs. Cooper came to see Mother, she gave her a glass of beer, I cannot see how folks un like it.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, August 1, 1866.Yesterday evening I took Grant and went after the cow, I found her up by Mr. Eugster's, I expect she would have come home; it did not take very long to go up there, after
				   I got back, Johnnie and I played on my gimnastic pole, Johnnie can do a good deal now, he has got him a pole , after that I worked a little on my gutta - pearcha ring, I am
				   making it out of a button that Mary Gredig give me.This morning Mrs. Wicks came and gave Mother a music lesson, Mother gave her some beer. Did not get through till very late , hope to do better tomorrow.Have had a sore throat almost all day to day.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, August 2, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Knew my lesson's pretty good, I wish I could say so every day.This morning Mrs. Wicks came after a music book of Mrs. Sneed's , that I used to play out of, I tell you I am glad it is gone , for I will not have to play in it.Mother has been making blackberrie cordial , she got Father to get some brandy.Have not swam the horse yet to day will do it this evening . I have to take a music lesson this P.M. Mother has taken seven pieces , it is a-bout time I am getting
				   "jealous of her. Our wheelbarrow is not done yet, I am sorry.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, August 3, 1866.This morning it was rather cool, but it grew quite warm by dinner time.Yesterday evening went after the cow , but could not find her , so I came home but when I got here I found she was here. To did I did not know my lessons very good ,I will
				   try and know them better tomorrow.The other day after I had swam the horses, I put my pants on the fence to dry , my knife was in the pocket, I suppose it fell out , but I could not find it, I suppose
				   somebody picket it up.I have got the headache a little , I guess it will be better after I get out.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, August 4, 1866.Yesterday evening went after the cow again , but on reaching home, found she was here, that makes the second time that she was here, and I was hunting her.  Did not get through
				   till late, will try and know my verses better tomorrow.This noon I swam the horses, Billy likes it Grant does not, he acts as if he was afraid.Day before yesterday Mr. Smily died , Father and Mrs. Heald went to the funeral, .This evening Jach. Calwell came to see me he staied a + good while.Johanna is here now, with Johnnie , he can talk agood deal.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, August 5, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. This morning Mother and I went to church, it was well filled , Mrs. Van Gilder set in our pew.After dinner Father and I went across the river on horse back, Father had to go to three places, we had a splendid ride, I have just got back, am very hungry, but I thought
				   I would write my Journal before eating, my leggs are tired , feel like sleeping too ; I, foregot we lost our way , and had to enquire at every house, to find it, but at last
				   we did.Mother has gone up to Johanna's , Knew my verses pretty good.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, August 6, 1866.Yesterday evening after I went to bed , did not do any thing but sleep.Yesterday Mr. Heald was ailing he is not quite well yet, I think. Some time ago a man came to Mr. Smith the livery stable man and asked him for a "horse to go to the
				   springs for a certain length of time" , he gave it too him, but when the time was up Mr. S. sent for him, but he was not there, but being that he instead of going
				   where he said , went off to Cleveland ; the fellow had swapped mr. L horse for a mule as the horse had broken down, he telegraphed to the said place, and they telegraph-ed
				   back that he was there, Mr. S. went after his horse and found him, and the best of all they have got the man.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, August 7, 1866.It has been a very pleasamt but warm day. This morning I found out that Grant walked a little lame, I do not know exactly what is the matter , he has lost a shoe.Yesterday I ate so much fat pork that it made me vomit, but I feel all right today.Did not get through till late. This morning Mrs. George Smith came to see Mother, Mother gave her some beer. Herman and Mr. Haupt are fixing up the church, Herman came
				   over this morning.Mother got through ironing early. Have got the headache form not getting through.Mother bought some butter from a man.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, August 8, 1866.It has been a pleasant day but warm .  Grant is lame, I donot know how he hurt himself, he is a great deal better today.Yesterday evening I had to go a cross the railroad to Mr. Bart to take some medicine , I went on Billy .  This morning Mrs. Wicks came and gave Mother a music lessons,
				   she has got a very pretty little song now.Gen. Stoneman, wife and her sister are here, I saw them out riding yesterday.Did not get through early again , have not got to say any more Geography now.Father has received a letter from Emma, beleive he did Monday too.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, August 9, 1866.Another very pleasant day, but warm. Yesterday Kattie Humes came to see Mrs. Heald, she stayed a good while , Ella Lock came too, but not with her.Did not get through early again . Mrs. Heald is going home I think she is going Saturday , but to return again. I cannot see that Grant walks lame now, he will have to
				   be shod tomorrow, I let the shoe stay off on purpose as he was lame , am glad he got well so soon. This evening I have to take a music lesson, Mrs. W. is going to change
				   her place it is going to be at Mr. M. F. Smiths she has got a room apart for a music room, I do not like that much.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, August 10, 1866.It has been very cool to day but pleasant , I like this kind of weather. Yesterday evening Johnnie Gredig came over here we had a pleasant time playing . Grant is perfectly
				   well now, I am going to have him shodd tomorrow.Yesterday Father had his hair cut , I am going to have mine this evening , am going to get the barber to cut it so close that, well, so that folks cannot pull it. This
				   evening I caught four young rats and gave them to the cat , tell you she growled when she had one, have a good notion , to make a little cage and fix it like a squirel's
				   and give it to Johnnie Wohlwend , I know it would please him.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, August 11, 1866.The weather skips about from one degree of temperatures to the other , it was very warm to day, and yesterday it was very cool , it has been pleasant though.Mrs. heald is going to start for home Monday, Mrs. Masret is going also, and I beleive Dr. Curtis.  Did not get through early, will try and do better tomorrow.This morning when I watered the horses, took Grant up to the shop to be shodd.Marie has been fixing up the old chicken coop , Sprained my ankle this evening it hurts me when I step. Mary came to see Marie, she stayed a good while , she often
				   comes to help her; wipes the dishes and does other things.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, August 12, 1866.It has been a very warm day. Yesterday evening swam the horses. Mother sent Johnnie up to Mrs. Smiths with some milk.This morning Mother and I went to church, it was quite full, Miss Mary Brownlow set with us I tell you she can sing , Mr. Albers brother was there.Mrs. Wicks and Ella have changes their place , it is going to be at Mr. Smiths, Ella came to church with Mrs. Smith . Today we had watermelon for dinner, I tell you
				   I went for it. This evening I am going to Sunday school , it is not quite time yet, Mary goes, I wish Johnnie and Willie would go to , I know they would like it.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, August 13, 1866.It has been a very sultry day , but did not rain any, it will rain I expect this evening or in the night. As the days are getting shorter I can not get up so early,
				   sometimes fools me; this morning I thought it was about 3 or 4 oclock, but thought it would be best to look, and on getting down, found that , it was most 5 oclock.
				   Did not get through till late , on account of not beginning early. Dr. Curtis did not go today, but is going tomorrow, so of-course Mrs. Heald did not go.The Baxter boys have got back, I have seen Lewis, he has grown a good deal since he was here last, have not seen Mitchel.This evening took a music lesson down at Mr. Smiths.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, August 14, 1866.Yesterday evening I swam the horses, after I got back went after the cow, Johnnie too but could not find her, she came home at night. Mrs. Heald started for her home
				   they came after her with the omnibus, Dr. Curtis went too.Mother has been ironing to day. This morning Mr. Smith brought us some tomatoes , he came in the buggy , Mr. S. came with him to tell Mrs. Heald good-by.Did not get through very early, hope to do better tomorrow.Yesterday Mr. Smith sent us some mush-melons , but as I have the "Lonusnens," I could not eat any, beleive
				   you came guess  what that means. Johanna has come to see Mother.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, August 15, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Yesterday evening I swam the horses , I swam them at noon today.Mary has been here most all day. The cow does not come home till very late now, Marie says she is a "bad cow". This evening Mrs. Wicks came and gave Mother a
				   music lesson, Mother most allways gives her some beer now.Mother has been making some tomato wine I think , I saw her squeezing the tomatoes.Have not got any lessons except my German and Arithmatic to say now.Beleive there is a string in our piano broken , one of the keys does not sound. It is warm this evening.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, August 16, 1866.Yesterday evening Mary and I played in the yard , I would try to catch her , and after, catching her she would try me, I got quite tired out. Yesterday evening got
				   an awful fall from my gymnastic pole, I was trying to learn knee trick, and fell backwards right smack on my head, I have had headache all day in consequence.Yesterday evening swam the horses , am going to swim them twice a day , swam them once this noon,Yesterday and today Mother has not been well at all.Mary staied here again all day, she says she likes to.This morning got up at half past four, but it was rather darksentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, August 17, 1866.Yesterday evening Father said that he wanted a scare crow put up in the tree to keep a-way the birds from eating the grapes , so Marie said I could take her old dress ,
				   but after I had got it all ready she said it looked too bad so I put up an old curtain .Yesterday evening I took a music lesson , Mrs. Wicks said I had improved on my pieces.Mother has been better today but not entirely well , I hope she will be by tomorrow.This evening it rained, it has not rained for a good while now, I know the farmers will be glad and every body else too.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, August 18, 1866.This morning Mother and Father went in the country , they ate breakfast early.Yesterday evening Mary  Johnnie and I had a spleandid time playing in the yard,  we played "Fox , base, blackman and toys  I get tired running very quick,Did not get through very early , will try and get through earlier tomorrow. Mary is going to stay here regularly now, she says that she likes to.Mr. Heald did not get up till very late , he says he is not very well.This evening I am going up to Mrs. Smilyes and to Mr. Smiths with Mother.I has been very pleasant.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, August 19, 1866.Yesterday evening I went thois call with Mother, and at Mr. Smith's I saw Charlie, I went down town with him in the
					buggy he can drive good, but he "has got a good chance to learn.This morning Mother and I went to church , up in the gallery a negro got a sleep , and snored so loudly that it attracted every bodyes atention , after church, I went
				   up in there and there he was as sound a sleep as he could be, I woke him up, the church was well filled , I liked the sermon.It is not time yet, but after it is I am going to Sunday school. Have got the headache awfully this evening.It rained some, Mr. Humes prayed for it at church.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, August 20, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day , rather cool this morning.This morning took the horse (Grant) up to the shop to be shodd , went after him twice and neither time he was done, but the second time I waited till he was. This
				   morning pulled up weads in the garden.To day Mother washed the clothes , she got through in good time , but I was just the opposite way , I did not get through till late , one thing is that I did not
				   begin early.This evening I took a music lesson, have not been home long. Mr. Spence is going to be married to Miss Betty Cary tomorrow.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, August 21, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Yesterday evening Mother and Father got back about 7 or half past.Yesterday evening Johnnie, Mary and I had a nice time playing, Johnnie is not strong at all, but he can run like a rabbit.To day "John Jason" brought us a load of saw-dust , he brings it all of the time now.Have got some news to tell you , (any way it is news to me) Dr. Fouche is going to build his dwelling house back of our stable, I will be glad to see that old rickety
				   thing that is there out of the way, they tore down the smoke house to day. This P.M. Mother has been making some cake , ("for me to eat") I beleive.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, August 22, 1866.Another pleasant day but warm this noon.Yesterday evening Mother and I went up to Johanna's , she has got another little baby, Aunt Anner, has, butt , she is down to her husbands folks, and he is here ,
				   so he did not know any thing about it, so this morning Marie waked me up early and I cleaned the horses , and Mother and I went out to Mr. Jackson's and told him ,
				   we saw, Mr. Jackson first , and after Mr. Jones came and began to read the note, Mr. J. cries out , "You are Dady"; howdy Dady; we had a splendid ride , got
				   back just at breakfast.This evening Mrs. Smith is comming here to tea, Charlie too, and Mrs. Wicks.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, August 23, 1866.It has been very cool to day and for a time rained very hard.Yesterday evening Mr. and Mrs. Smith, her mother, Mrs. Wicks ,Mr. Haws and Charlie S. were here for supper, I had to play for them, and such blunders, ----- Father, Mr.
				   Smith and Mrs. Wicks sang, they left about half past eight or nine oclock.Have not been feeling very well to day ,had an awful head-ache, I guess it will be better by tomorrow.This evening I took a music lesson , after I got through the man began to tune the piano.Mother has gone away this evening, fortune knows where. Got a letter from Capt. and Mrs. Curtis.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, August 24, 1866.It has been the coolest day we have had this year, I have been shivering all day , had to put on my shoes and stocking .This morning Col. Terry came to see Father, but he had gone to Mr. Cowans , so I went after him , but when I got down there they said he was gone, and when I got home ,
				   sure enough he was here. Yesterday I had an awful headache, and it came on again this noon, there is a stedy aching , but besides that , once in a while comes a sharp
				   biting pain , just like an knife .Father got two letters from Amos. to day.Mr. Heald is not staying here now , I suppose he sleeps at the store.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, August 25, 1866.It has been another cool day, but very warm in the sun.Yesterday evening Father and Mother went out at the graveyard, while they were gone Johnnie, and Mary and I had a good time playing "hicker-madicaneer"
				   as the boys call it, they got back just as I was going to bed.Bob has been chopping up the wood , I donot think he can get done to day.Do not think Grand it very well , he does not eat heartily . Have had that same horrible headache again , but more severely than ever, Father has had it also. This evening
				   Mr. Weishaupt came here , he is here now.Grant has been staying out in the yard all day.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, August 26, 1866.This morning I went down to Mr. Benziger's on grant it was about eleven when I got down there, the boys had gone to school, but Mr. Bainziger was there , the boys
				   got back about twelve oclock, as Mrs. Bainziger was at Johanna's , Mr. B. had to cook dinner , a good while after dinner we boys went after the calf, (one that had
				   gone astray) but we could not find it , after we got to the house, we stayed there awhile , and then the boys began to eat supper , they ate so early as John has to go to
				   town , I started to town before John did, have not been here very long, would have had a nice time if I had not had the headache.This evening took some letters to the post office.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, August 27, 1866.It has been a dark, gloomy, rainy day all day. Have not been well at all to day , Father gave me some calomel , and this morning some salts  I tell you what
					"stuff", and I made an awful piece of work at taking them too, I staied in bed a good part of the day, then I went down to the nursery, slept and read
				   there a while, am going back to bed after I write my Journal , as I do not feel so well , Father has been sick to day too , he took some calomel too.This evening Mother got a letter from her, sister, she says her baby weighs eleven pounds, Father says "it is a good deal for a geril".sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, August 28, 1866.It rained a good part of the day again to day.Have been sick again all day, and have taken quinine twice and have to take twice again, I tell you , it is worse than studying, had rather do two days work in one
				   day, than to have a day like to day , have not been down at all today, Mother staied up here a good while and sewed , read some little, but not much on account of
				   my head - ache ; I seem to want every thing that I cannot have , for instance ; ice cream, coconut, and chicken, do not know much to say as I have been so under the
				   weather, hope I will feel better tomorrow, you must exense suck writhing, as I did it in bed.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, August 29, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day to folks that are well , but not to the sick one's , and I unfortuneately happen to be among them . Have been sick now three days ,
				   have not been feeling much better.Mrs. Eugster is sick too, Mother is going to let her stay here till she is well, or better, I don't know witch.  This morning Mrs. Wicks came to give Mother a
				   music lesson, she came up and saw me.Today I just have to take quinine again.Mrs. Baenziger and Johnnie were here, such a noise he makes , Mrs. B. says he does not know what sick means, when she tells him "to be still , that I am sick."sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, August 30, 1866.It has been another pleas-ant day. To day I have been a great deal better, Mother says I look more natural , and I tell you I feel more natural, am right deaf on account
				   of having taken so much quinine .Mrs. Baenziger annd Johnnie were here again , it is that Mrs. B. is staying at Johanna's that she can come here so often , Johnnie looked at some pictures he liked
				   them , I love to hear him talk . Do not think Mrs. Eugster is much better.Went down and staied in the parlor while Mother practiced , did not stay up long.I will have to get "good" strong and well, before the 13th Sep. for the college is going to open then and I am going.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, August 31, 1866.Another pleasant day, butt to me too , for I have been feeling so much better that I have been up and around all day , at breakfast, I ate some toast and coffee , 
				   for dinner some chicken, potatoe, butter and bread , it tasted "firstrate", I read a great deal through the day, knittied some with some twine and two
				   neadles that Mother gave me , like to knit.Mrs. Eugster was a little better . To day Charlie Smith came here to bring some to-matoe's , perhaps he is, comming back this evening to see me, I hope he will , 
				   I like him.Johnnie ate breakfast here as he is taking care of the horses while I am sick.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, September 1, 1866.In the night it rained very hard .  To day I have been a great deal better , have been up all day, but not able to eat a great deal, Father and Mother had some
					watermelon but this poor little "chap" could not , as he is "sick", think I will be well by tomorrow.To day Mother said that Uncle Amos was coming to Knoxville to see us, he has been keeping a hotel down in the istmus of "Pannama", but got so very sick
				   had to travel away from the hot climate for his health , will not I be glad when he comes.This evening Uncle Francis Jone's came to see us, he is here now.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, September 2, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, except very warm.  To day I have been a gread deal better , there is some signs of me getting well some time .  Did not go to
				   Sunday school now church , so Mother had to go again without me, (you knew I was in the country last Sunday).  I read most of the time , at dinner we went up
				   to Mrs. Smiths , Mother and Father ; I went with Mrs. S. up, and Charlie came after Mother , at dinner I could not eat all they had , but I made my basket pretty
				   full; we had a nice time, Charlie brought us home in the buggy, Father has now gone to give Mrs. Smith a drive. Mrs. Schench is now here.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, September 3, 1866.Yesterday evening Mr. Eugster took Mrs. E. home , right after she went , I went to bed, and was not able to get up to day , and was rather glad to stay where I was, I
				   felt so bad , Father gave me calo-mel, and put a mustard plaster on my chest , and I don't know what all he did not do, I felt so bad, that I was not lonesome ,
				   but it was the longest day to me that I ever experi-enced.To day Mother washed the clothes, and afterwards began to fix the room for Uncle Amos.This evening Mr. Humes came to see me , I like to here him talk, he staied a good while, Charlie Smith came too.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, September 4, 1866.It has been another pleasant, but very warm day.Have been a little better to day, I hope I will feel en-tirely free from my pain by tomorrow, that is my prinsipal "hurt-ing" now. Last night Charlie Smith
				   came to see how I was and he staied awhile up in my room too, he says he will take me riding in the buggy when I get well enough, but so I get well enough to go to
				   school ,had rather have that than riding.Marie and Mary have been doing something more to Uncle Amos's room .My pain is not so severe as it was this morning.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, September 5, 1866.Yesterday evening Herman Schenck came to see me he staied a good while , I like to hear him talk for he has read in history things that I have read, he staied till
				   after dark.Mother says that I have not been much better to day although this evening the pain entirely left me.This morning Mrs. Wicks came up to see me as she had to give Mother a music lesson. Did not go to sleep last night till way after twelve o clock , I did not do any
				   thing but toss and turn.It rained this evening but not hard, just enough to make the roads goodsentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, September 6, 1866.To day I have been just about the same, except in the night I had a very hard chill it must have lasted for about fifteen minutes , and my teath chattered so that
				   I could not talk , thought of calling for Father ,I thought he could give me some-thing , but did not as I do not beleive he could have heard me as I chattered so,
				   on my teath rather, and besides that I had a very bad night, did not go to sleep till late, any way late for a sick person.Mother staied with me a great part of the time eather knitting or croteheting or doing some-thing else. I slept a good deal through the day, I hope that will mak
				   up for lost time and let me sleep tonight.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, September 7, 1866.Last night did not go to sleep early , but when I went to sleep, I slept very sound-ly , when Mother wanted to give me medicine she said that she had to pinch me
				   two or three times, I had a good nights rest, and to day I felt quite good, but am not going to be so "fast" as I was last week.To day for dinner I had some thing good a piece of "Custard pie" I tell you was not that "bully", I had to scrape off the goody and leave the crust, 
				   but it was so good I wanted to eat it too.Mrs. Cooper was on the street and was taken sick , so she came here, and staied till Mr. C. got a carriage to take her home.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, September 8, 1866.Yesterday evening Willie Helms came to see me he was very sorry that I was sick, and so was I for we would have had a nice time, he says they are thinking of sending
				   him to school to the collage , I hope they will, and hope I will get well enough to go too.This morning I had a heavy chill and then fever, so I could not set up in the morn-ing as I expected yesterday, but this evening Mother told me to put on my clothes
				   and see how I felt; have been up ever since.Father picked all of the grapes, and Mother has been mak-ing jelly out of some of them, while she was picking them over she gave me some.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, September 9, 1866.It has not been a very pleasant day , has been rainy and cool. Last night I slept in Mother's and Father's bed down stairs , so I could be seen to, Father
				   gave me quinine to pre-vent me chilling , have been feeling very well all day, Father says that the chills sometimes come every other night, so may be I will have one
				   to night, I hope I will not , for if I I do, have to take quinine, have to take it any way.Mother had to go to church alone again , she will get used to that pretty soon , she says that Mary Frank Cooper has got back, and has gained a good deal of flesh.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, September 10, 1866.All through the night Father gave me quinine to keep, away any chill, and thank good-ness it did , I have been feel-ing very well , but very weak all day, have been
				   able to eat a little more , like that first rate. Mother gave me some yarn and I began to knit me some suspenders, have done a good deal on one.Father received a letter from Emma , she is in New Hampshire at Grand Fa-ther's , she is going away from there soon.This evening Mother showed me how to play backgammon, and we plaied till bed time, I mean for me.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, September 11, 1866.It has been a very dark, sultry day , rained some.Father and I got up late this morning, I have been feeling very well, not so weak as yesterday ,To day I went out to the dinner table, I ate some "roast and gravy sweet potato and bread", I tell you it tasted good, felt like eating some more after I
				   got through, but Mo-ther said wait till tomorrow, then I could have some more.I finished one of my suspender's to day, am going to get done the other sooner,  Father made fun of them, but I "don't care".sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, September 12, 1866.Last night Father and Mother plaied backgammon, and M. just whiped him three times.  Father was afraid I would have a chill in the night , but he gave me a pill ,
				   and I took some of Dr. Ayres "Ague Cure" and it prevented it , so I have been feeling pretty well all day , Mother let me eat a little more too.Father says I am not able to go to school for a week yet, and the school begins tomorrow.Mother went over to the church to see about the car-pet , some of it was brought over here and she is sewing now.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, September 13, 1866.Yesterday evening Mo-ther and Father took a ride, I was so sound asleep , that I did not here when they got back. I slept up in my room last night, I slept very soundly.
				   Have not been quite so well to day as yesterday , hope I will not have another chill.The college began to day, they had sixty six scholars , I think that is right well for the be-ginning , as I said yesterday, I could not go, Mother thinks of sending
				   me in the country, to stay a week and by that time I will be well enough to go.This evening Mary Frank came to see Mother she staied a while with me.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, September 14, 1866.Yesterday evening Mother got through making her part of the carpet , I carried it over, M. came too, after that we went down to Mrs. Lock's to see her baby, it
				   is a girl , Ella showed me her books, she has got some that I would like to read.This morning I heard the college bell while I was in bed for the boys to get up , you know they have some boarders, I got up "too".This morning I helped Mother sweep down spider webbs.I still have to take Dr. Ayres medicine , I tell you it makes me hungry , I eat as if I had not had any thing for a week.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, September 15, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Yesterday evening Mother and I went up to see Mrs. Cooper, Mary Frank and I talked out on the porch, we staied till dusk.This morning I took one bag of eating corn to the mill to be grownd, also four or five bags of corn for the cow.I read some in my History every day now to Mother.To day a load of oats came , Johnnie and Marie packed it , as, I am still to week , to do much.This evening I went after the meal , it took me an hour and five-minutes, as I had to take one bag at a time.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, September 16, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, rained some but not enough to make the roads bad.This morning Mother and Father went in the country, they got back just in time to go to church , and M. had to hurry to do that , they would not let go to Sun day
				   school or church eather, guess I can by next Sunday.After dinner Father had to go out to Capt. Ball's , so Mother said I might go with him, we had a splendid ride, going we saw some little children gathering or
				   picking rather chineapims, out there they gave Father and I some apples , we brought some home, have not been back
				   long.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, September 17, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Am now going to take care of the horses, I began this morning , I like it quite well as it is now.Read some in the morn-ing in my History to Mother, read about Elisabeth , and James the first to day.This morning Mrs. Wicks came here to see us did not stay long.This evening I took a music lesson, for the since I have been sick , Charlie Smith was there , I saw him go through some of the things that I can
				   remember, I had to about three years ago up at institute.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, September 18, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant but warm day. This morning I got up a little earlier than yesterday, but not early enough, for when I go to school , I
				   will have to practice an hour before I go, will be strong enough to start pretty soon.This morning when I watered the horses, Grant just cut up , he bites Billy so, that it is as much as I can do to take care of both.Have got the headache a little this evening , I guess it will wear off by the time I get out.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, September 19, 1866.Yesterday evening a box arrived for Mother from Mrs. Heald she sent me some candy , was not she good , there was a little package for Mr. H. I took it
				   over there , I mean to the drug store.  Today I had my first experience in school, I like Mr. Payne , I had to read in the history of Greece in the morning ,
				   and when the boys studied , I did not have to do any thing but keep still as I had no books, at dinner I came home , after dinner , I had to spell , Dr. Miner
				   heard the spelling lesson, I all ways trembled when my time came, have not been home long, Willie Rogan goes.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, September 20, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, but hot.This morning Mr. Mc Campbells son came in to go to school up at the college , he started before I did but, I got there in good time, Father was up there I did
				   not see him , but only the horse out side; Father could not get my latin book as it had not come, but he got my his-tory of Greece, Mr. Payne heard our spelling
				   this evening, I like that, because there are all sorts of boys , we had four new scholars today, George and Andy White  Tom Nelson, and the one a-fore-said.Took a music lesson this evening. Mrs. George Smith is now here.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, September 21, 1866.It has been a very uncom-monly cool day.  This morning I went to school as usual, Mr. Humes reads in the testesment every morning and prayes, I was there in good
				   time this morning they boys were not seated, in the morning we read in history as usual in the evenings Mr. Allen gives us a latin lesson, the last thing is the
				   spelling class, we were all numbered  Jim Maynard is lead, they put me six from lead, but I caught up three, I do like the spelling class, we have so much fun,
				   at re-cess I played liekermadeekersna, an tumbled down on all fours, but got up and ran again, as hard as ever.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, September 22, 1866.It has been another cool but pleasant day.  There was no school today as it is Saturday.Father is a good deal better but he looks bad.  The ladies have been working over at the church, put down the carpet , Mother has been fixing the lampes, she and I
				   carried them over, I put them in their places , they are new ones.This evening Mother and Father when out in the country , while they were gone Levi came with a piece of carpet for our pew, but as Mother was gone, (it had to be
				   bound) I did not know what to do , but Mary sewed it , I carried it over and fixed it down.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, September 23, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day .  This morning Mother and Father went in the country , so I had to go to church alone, Col. Morrow was there with his Mother , I sat
				   with them or, they with me rather  I was in the pew before they came.This morning I went to Sunday School , the first time in five Sundays, am still in Dr. Minor's class, but there are some new boys , Horris Gates , Henry Ludlow,
				   Herman Schenck and an-other boy but I donot know his name.Father and Mother have just got back , they are just eating dinner , the country folks did not give them any.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, September 24, 1866.Yesterday evening Mother did not feel well , she did not feel very well today.Last night in the night I vomited , but went to sleep right after-wards and have been feeling very well all day.This morning I went to school, one of the boys had to speak today , my name is on the list, so I will have to prepare , but I do not know when , I am at the
				   head of the spelling class , but every word I spell , am afraid I will have to go down.This evening I took a Music lesson, took some more on my exercises.Mother got through washing the clothes in good time.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, September 25, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. This morning I went to school as usual , Dr. Mi-nor told me I was get no.4 copy book ; This morning Will and Hugh Rice spoke ,
				   I will dread when my time comes, I was the first one down the hill today.Last night I did not vomit , and have been been feel-ing natural all day.This evening Mrs. Sanford and Miss Lu, they are here now, Mother carried in some apples and said "I expect you want one too , as I have just ate one.Am going after my copy booksentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, September 26, 1866.It rained some in the night , but has been a cool pleas ant day ("except the mud").This morning I got up at fifteen minutes to three , but I went back to bed and got up the second time about half past five.This morning I went to school , they are cleaning out the cistern and there is a great deal of water in it to be pumped out so Mr. Payne lets us boys pump , we
				   boys have dug a ditch as far as down to the pond, and we named the pond the "gulf of Mexico" and the stream the Mississippi , we told Mr. Payne, he
				   said that rivers were generaly wider at the mouth than at the source, so Henry Ludlow made a dam at the mouth and then told Mr. P. to look.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, September 27, 1866.It has been another cool but pleasant day.  Yesterday even-ing I looked over my speach, for I donot know when he shall call me up, Alfred Baxter spoke this
				   morning.To day I went to school , as usual, the boys have pumped agood deal out of the cis tern , I am on the road to the foot now as the big boys are a head of me.This noon I forgot to take my music down, so I had to come home after it, that made me late .This evening Mother has gone up to Johanna's, I guess she will be back before long.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, September 28, 1866.Another very pleas ant cool day.  This morning I went to school , and had time to pump a little before recess closed, Mr. Humes was there this morning,  To day
				   the carpenters were up there looking about  I do not know what doing , in the spelling class I caught up two , but misst one word so that put me a peg lower.This morning Mother went up to stay with Mrs. Humes she is sick, Mother was gone when I came home to dinner.To day I said my first German lesson (since I have been sick)(did not before as I read instead), expect I have forgotten a great deal, but am glad to begin.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, September 29, 1866.It has rained or been a drisily day all day. As today is Saturday did not have to go to school , but am allways sorry when Saturday comes.Bob has been here all day cutting up the wood.This morning Mrs. Wicks came and gave Mother a music lesson, while she was playing I drew a horse on the last leaf of my drawing book, it will take me a long time to
				   finish it.  To day I tried to get my shoes mended , but he could not today will have to wait till Monday.Father got a letter from Emma. Did not get through till late.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, September 30, 1866.Yesterday evening Father was taken sick , he has been better to day, went to church, Mother and I went too, I went before Mother did, so as to keep our pew, the church
				   was well filled, some strangers, Miss Buel has got back but did not sing up in the choir.To day I knew my verses pretty good , but nothing to brag about.  Yesterday Bob got through cutting up the wood did not think he could.This evening Mother and I will go out to the grave-yard (prehaps).Today a man came for Father , to go to Clinton , but I do not think he can.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, October 1, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day.  Today is the 1st Oct. and 14 days from now I will be thirteen and I am sorry, for I do not like to get up into my teens.This morning I went to school , I have to speak to morrow, I know I will feel green when I get upon the stage, if you know how that feels; Mr. Payne said that
				   I always had good examples , (as they are nothing to me) as the other boys do not do all of them and I do, Mr. Allen said that the latin books had come and gave
				   us a lesson for tomorrow.There is prayer meeting and Mother has gone.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, October 2, 1866.It has been a very pleasant warm day .This morning I went to school as us ual ; there were very few there this evening as the circus is in town and they went to that.Last night when Father went to the "chapter" he got me a latin book, but took it to the lodge room and forgot to bring it home, and as I had to have it
				   today, he went after it this this morn-ing , he said it cost him a "heap of trouble."Yesterday evening Jim Maynard pushed me down the stepts at school , and sprained my ankle, and today I could not run good.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, October 3, 1866.It has been a very pleasant but warm day.This morning I went to school, I do not care a bit for walking up those hills now, have got so used to it , as we have got our, latin books we all have
				   a lesson every day , I now take my German Grammar and study my lesson at school , Mr. Payne heard our spelling this evening, I went down one but caught
				   up again.Yesterday evening Mo-ther covered my latin book so my History and Latin are covered with the same kind of cloth.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, October 4, 1866.It has been another very pleasant day.Yesterday evening I tryed to see what I could do on my gymnastic pole, I had strength to turn over once , and that is all is a-bout all.This morning I went to school as usual, I now take my Gramma and study that there , as I do not have enough school studies to occupy my time all though
				   the stud-ing.This evening when I came from school I came right past Mrs. Wicks'es and forg ot to stop and take my lesson, so back I had to hop back again.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, October 5, 1866.Yesterday evening Moth-er went up to Mrs. Smiths to cut her wraper, so Mrs. S. told her to stay to supper and inviteed Father and I up too , as F. did not feel well
				   he did not go, but I (always feel well when there is any thing to eat) did they had a plain but nice supper, Charlie and I did not stay in the parlor, but in one
				   of the other rooms till Mother was ready to go.To day I went to school I went with Charlie Smith, Mr. Allen has devid-ed our latin class and put the boys that could get along the fastest in the other, and
				   happy to say I am in the first.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, October 6, 1866.This morning I took Grant to the blacksmith shop to be shodd, and could not get him till about one oclock.This morning Mother lit-tle girl came, she is an orphan, and if M. likes her she is going to keep her till she is a woman she is very young now.This P.M. I went down town and bought some tape, two dozen buttons (for M. new wraper) and a cord and tassel for Mother, besides went after Marie's
				   shoes; while I was down town I saw Dr. Cummings , he looks just like he did when the soldier's were here , he spoke to me first.I went up to the store after some vinager but they had none.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, October 7, 1866.It has been a very pleasant Sunday.This morning I went to Sunday school after I came home Mother and I went to church, Father comes around now with the box to "beg" for money , I
				   gave him some.After Mother makes Lizzy some more clothes, she is going to S. school too, am going to try and teach her , her letters by that time  I learned her five today ,
				   and read to her some in my S. Schhol book.There is going to be church again this evening at seven oclock, may be M. and I will go.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, October 8, 1866.This morning it was very foggy, but has been a pleas ant day , except this even-ing it looks a little like rain. Last night Mother and I went to church , I
				   was as sleepy as I could be when it was out.This morning I went to school , got there just in time they have given each boy a number on the side of the desk he had to sit in, I am (67) and it happened
				   that I have to set with the same boy I did before.After school I took a music lesson, as I took my book at noon, and did not forget to stop.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, October 9, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day .  This morning Mother got up just the same time I did to iron.Yesterday Mr. and Mrs. Weishaupt and Mrs. Baenziger were here for dinner.To day I went to school as usual, I had to read my discription of Athens out loud before the whole class, to-morrow I have to bring a discription of
				   the desk and table that are in Mr. Payne's reciting room, some of the other boys have to bring a dicription of the college building its-self, am
				   glad he gave me the table.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, October 10, 1866.In the night and this morning it rained some, it was pretty winddy on college hill and this evening comming from school I fell down in all off it. This
				   morning some gentlemen came up to the college , they heard us read and examine us in Ray's third Arithmatic, Mother says she would like to try and
				   do it for she would know right what to ask to get me, am glad she does not have to.  Lizzy is getting on right well now, she begins to know how to talk.Mother has gone away with Mrs. Sanford.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, October 11, 1866.It has been a cool but pleasant day.Last night Father went in the country , he did not get back till after I had gone to school, he rode Grant, and he rolled out in the country so today he was
				   very dirty , so it took all of my leisure time to clean him, before I had come for my dinner "he" had taken Billy and gone again, he has not got back yet.To day I went to school as usual , Mr. Allen said I knew my latin lesson good to day, but I think I do allways.This evening comming from school I took a music lesson.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, October 12, 1866.It has been a pleasant day. Last night Father did not get back, so Mother had to "sleep alone"again", he did not get back till after I had gone to
				   school.This morning I went to school as usual, did not get there in time to go into the chapel, Dr. Minor heard us read our compositions , don't like him as well as
				   Mr. PayneFather brought Billy home today the same way he did Grant , very dirty , so it took all of my leasure time to clean him.  The very next time I "get time"
				   I am going after our wheelbarrow it is done at last.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, October 13, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant but cold day .As it is Saturday did not have to go to school, am allways sorry when Saturday comes for I like to go to school so.  Last night when I practiced , Father and Mother
				   stay in there with me.This morning Mrs. Wicks came and gave Mother a mu-sic lesson , while she was play-ing I drew on my horse, it seems to take an ever lasting time to get it finished.Mother is making Lizzy a new dress, after she knows her letters Mother is going to have her go to Sunday school, she was 7 years old on the 4th Oct.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, October 14, 1866.It has been a pleasant Sunday. Yesterday evening Mother got through making Lizzys dress, it is right pretty; I bought her a thimble, and Mother is going to learn her
				   how to sew; a little bonnet or shaker's as they call them.This morning Mother and I went to church, I sat with Sam. Morrow as Mrs. Cooper, Bell, and Mary Frank came in our's.Before church I went to Sunday school, we had a new scholar to day , do not know what his name is, he is a big boy.To day I learned Lizzy three more letters.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, October 15, 1866.To day is my birth day. The first thing I saw this morning was something big laying on my table , I hoped out of bed and found it was a nice haversack to take my
				   books to school, it felt as if something was inside , I opened it and found some chest-nuts, a nice pair of slippers and three cravats; and beside that , there was
				   a nice brush for the horses.This morning when I went to school I took my books and luncheon in my new such and I beleive every boy up at school knows it is my birth day.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, October 16, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant day.  This morning I went to school again, was there in good time both this morning and this noon; got there before the bell began
				   to ring, it is a rule now that in the morning the bell shall ring five min-utes for the boys to come to the chapel and if any boy comes in after it stops he is
				   marked.I have to study English Gramma, Mr. Allen is going to hear it, Father got me a book this evening it cost 85 cts, Mr. A. thinks we will only have to recite once
				   a week.To night Mr. Bracket is comming to see us, I have to practice , so I can play for him.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, October 17, 1866.It has been a cool, pleas-ant day.  This morning I went to school as usual, Mother covered my Grammar for me, so now I have got four books covered
				   with the same kind of cloth; we boys have got as far as "Multipication of Compound numbers , Mr. Bayne says" he hopes to get through the book
				   this cession.  This evening they did not let out the whole of the school till very late, it was twenty minutes to five when I reached home. To day Mr. and Mrs. Jackson
				   were here for dinner.Last night Mr. Brackett came here to see us, we all sang.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, October 18, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. This morning I went to school got there just in time to get to go into the chapel; in the history class Mr. Payne made
				   us sit in three seats one right back of the other , and call the names of the boys alphabebicaly, Mr. Allen is not going to have any more spelling, but
				   English Gramma in-stead. This evening comming from school I stoped and took a music lesson. This evening Dr. Minor brought the girls over here to practice
				   for the Sunday school choir but I did not have time to go in as they let out school so late , and when I got home I had to water the horses.Did not get through till very late.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, October 19, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant day. This morning I went to school as usual got there in time to get into the chapel, the first thing is the History class, next
				   Rays third Arith-matic, that is all I recite in the morning , in the even-ing , from half past one to two latin class & from two till half past writting ,
				   then I study till half past three , then from that time till four spelling, ever-y day except Tuesdays and T.s. for
				   then we have English Gramma instead. For my lunchion I took a large apple some bread and pudding , and three wallnuts not much is it.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, October 20, 1866.This morning Father was sick but this evening he has been working.  Did not have to go to school it being Saturday, but am aleays sorry when S. comes.To day I knew my virses and German pretty good, could not begin till late, as, I "cleaned the horses and did not get them clean" and just had to
				   clean them till I did.  Yesisterday or day before Mrs. Gratz came to see Mother.  This evening I got Grant shodd after I brought him back, I took some cloth
				   on him up to Mrs. Sanford, and then went to the Drug-store and got the jug full of viniger , like to go errands on G.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, October 21, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Mother has got Lizzy her shaker trimmed it is very pret-ty , she is as proud of her new dress and bonnet as a little thing
				   could be, she and Marie have gone to take a walk with Mrs. Gredig.Yester-day evening Father and Mother took a ride, they got back about bed time , my bed time.This morning I went to Sunday school. Dr. Minor is going to have the Sunday school choir meet at the church every S. evening to practice, "me"
				   belongs to it.Mother and I went to church.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, October 22, 1866.It has been a dark gloom-y day , rained some.This morning I went to school but could not get in the chapel, the bellman ought to ring the second bell five minutes , and this morning stoped before three , 
				   I could have got there in good time if he had done his duty , I have to say my Grammar tomorrow even-ing and I dread it for it is "awful" hard.Mother washed the clothes today , she woke me up when she got up to begin.This evening Mother and Father are going up to Mr. Smith's.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, October 23, 1866.A very cool but pleas-ant day .  This morning went to school and got there just in time to get into the chapel, the second bell had not rang, Mr. Allen heard our
				   English Grammar this evening instead of spelling , it is to recite Tuesdays and Fridays.Last night Father and Mother went up to Mr. Smith's, I was asleep long before they came.Last Sunday I learned all of this weeks verses, and recite 3 a day as usual but I don't have to "study" them much now, said them last night so I
				   did not have to say any today,sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, October 24, 1866.It has been a very cold but pleasant day.  Yesterday Father bought some plank and I fixed the horses stables with them he is not quite through .This morning went to school as usual got there in time for the chapel, they have got a large fire in both fireplaces, I set right by the fire, I have
				   to speak pretty soon they have not given out my name yet; Mr. Payne or Mr. Allen were not there this morning for chapel  Dr. Minor had prayers.Have got the headache a little this evening do not know what caused it, may be I have taken cold in it.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, October 25, 1866.Another very cold day. Have just got from school, Mother is over at the church so Marie says. This morning I went to school, we had a new scholar , Willie
				   Mc Culler.This evening I took a music lesson comming from school.  To day Mother has been making some kind of jelly do not know what kind.Mother is making me some drawers and under shirts; I tryed them on and told her I would not have to wear any other clothes.Mother has moved the piano in to dinning-room, and the stove is in there now.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, October 26, 1866.It has not been quite so cold as it was yesterday.Last night Father got a letter from Emma she sent a note to me.  Last night I said ten of my Psalms for Saturday, I was going to say some more tonight,
				   but as Dr. Minor is going to be here for tea ,do not suppose I can.  This morning went to school as usual got there just in time for the Chapel, I have
				   to speak tomorrow; I had to read my composition.To day Mother has been making tomato pickel, and I don't know what-all.Mrs. Heald has come she was here last night.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, October 27, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant day.  To day I got through in good time. This morning Mrs. Heald came to see Moth-er she staied a good while.This morning Sam. Morrow came to see me he staied a good while.This morning I took a letter down to the post office for Father .  To day we had "beef stake" for dinner the first time for a long time.This evening Horis Gates came for me to go over to the church to the S.S. choir, after it was out, Horis and I went over to his Uncles (Mr. Dicksnson's)
				   to see the new hot house, it is splendid.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, October 28, 1866.It has been a very pleasant Sunday.  Yesterday evening Mother and I took the horses and went out to Mr. Jackson's to see if the wonderful baby and its
				   mother had come , they have, we had a splendid time.This morning Mother and I went to church , there were a great many young ladies confirmed , the church was crowded , I gave up my seat to Miss Parkhurst and
				   Horis Gates and I went up in the gallery.This morning I went to Sunday school as usual.To day Aunt Anna and the baby have been here, they staied to dinner, have now gone up to Johanna's Mother too, I am going after I write my Journal, or
				   get through rather.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, October 29, 1866.It has been a dark rainy gloomy day.  Yesterday evening after I learned Lizzy her letters I went up to Ms.Wohlwends too,
				   just as I got there Mr. Jones was getting ready to take Mrs. Jones home.  Last night Father went to church, Mother went too but I staied home and learned this weeks verses.This morning there was church Mother went.This morning I went to school as usual except a little later, did not get there in time for prayer's; had to speak.Did not get through till late will try and do better tomorrow. I took a music lesson.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, October 30, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant cool day.Last night and this morn-ing I had the headache awfuly but it wore away before noon.This morning I went to school, we have caught up in arithmatic, to where I was when I stopped with Mother ; We had a new scholar I think his name is Ritte , 
				   he is a big boy, I had to read this morning.  When I went, this noon I got to ride on a wagon with a farmer and he just ran his horses so that I got there
				   in good time .Horace Gates and I are going to try to get to set together , hope Mr. Rice will let us.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, October 31, 1866.It has been a very cool pleasant day.This morning I went to school as usual. I had to read. Horace Gates and I set to-gether now, I will tell you how it happened, the very frontis seat is
					occupied at prayers by Sharp and another room boy, but as they have room's they do not set there in study hours so Horace and myself will sit in a
				   bench that has no desk in prayer time, am glad we have got together .This evening Horace Gates and I came home together .  To day Mrs. Wicks came and gave Mother a music lesson.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, November 1, 1866It has been a very cold but pleasant day.Yesterday evening Mother and I took a ride we went as far as Armstrongs, creek and came home by the culvert, we had a splendid ride, but my hands got very cold.This morning I went to school as usual, have to take my Arithmatic and His-tory home now as I can not go to my desk after prayers till we recite.Dr. Minor has taken our latin class don't like it a bit, had rather had Mr. Allen.Took a music lesson this evening , Mrs. Smith came to see Mrs. Wicks.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, November 2, 1866.It has beena very pleas-ant day.  Yesterday evening I was envited to a candy pulling at Mrs. Hosse's this evening, a good many of the college boys are envited.This morning I went to school as usual got there in good time, it is a wonder for I was afraid I could not get in the chapel , so I ran like fifty.To day Dick. Chilre's and Bob. Tule had a fight, about a game of town Ball, and this evening Mr. Payne had a regular trial as I was a witness had to stay, but I
				   wished I was not for I wanted to come home and read my German.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, November 3, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant day. Yesterday evening Mother and I were going to take another ride but Mrs. Heald came to see her so we could not go.Yesterday evening Horace Gates and George Baxter came over here to go to the candy pulling, I was just eating supper.There were lots of boys and girls there , we had a splen-did time , I came home at ten oclock , but at that late hour they did not have the candy or boiled molasses
				   seather.  Felt pretty sleepy this morning when I wolk up.  Mother and Mrs. Cooper have gone down town , she was
				   here for dinner.Horace Gates is comming to see me.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, November 4, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant day.  Yesterday evening Horace Gates came to see me he staied till it was time to go over to the church to the S.S. choir, we have
				   learn-ed two new pieces perfectly, we sang them this morning at Sun-day school, Dr. Minor plaied the organ, we had a good time singing .Last night Dr. Minor was here for supper, after he had gone I said twenty of my Psalms, so I had to say only twenty to-day.  This A.M. Mother and I went to church
				   Horace Gates & Herman Schenck set with me.Learned Lizzie five letters today.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, November 5, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day ; this morning it was quite warm, but tonight it is very cold.  Last night Mother and Fa-ther took a walk after they got back they
				   went to church, was just going to bed when they got home.This morning I went to school got there just in time to get into the chapel, we had three new scholars: John Oswald, Lewis Baxter and a young getleman named Johnson
				   do not know his other name.  At noon got there in time too, caught up two in spelling .This evening I took a mu-sic lesson comming from school.  Did not get through till late.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, November 6, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant but cold day.  This morning I went to school as usual, got there in good time.Yesterday George Bax ter, Bob. Toole and Dick Chilres were expelled from school, they have to recite lessons to Dr. Minor after school, I met Bob. Tule going
				   up to the college.This morning Mrs. Heald came to see Mother , do not know how long she staied as I went to school.This evening Horace Gates and George Baxter came to see me , but as I had to say my German and write my journal, can not see them now,sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, November 7, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant but cold day.This morning I went to school as usual got there in good time both this noon and this morning, will have to speak pretty soon , am going to learn a
				   piece I copied from Horace Gates fifth Reader, it about King Henry of En-gland and his son being drown-ed.  To day I knew my German but did not get through
				   till late.Mother was talking about going up to Mrs. Coopers do not know wheather she went or not.Do not water the horses at noon now.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, November 8, 1866.It has been a very cold but pleasant day.  This morning I went to school as usual, got there in good time both this morning and at noon.We will be through the History pretty soon Mr. Payne is going to have us go through it again after we finish this time. We are in fractions in Arithmatic .This evening I took a music lesson , did not take any thing new, Miss Emma Woodd was there.This evening Mother went down to the Drud store for Father .Have just got through taking care of the horses.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, November 9, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant cold day.This morning Father had to go away early, so Mother waked me up early to feed and clean the horses, I ate when Father did so did Mother, getting
				   up early gave me a good start, and I practiced one hour and read my German, but as I did not know my German at noon was as late as ever.This morning I went to school got there just in time for the chapel.We recited our Gramma this evening , Mr. Allen gave us the funniest sentences to correct.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, November 10, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day.  Did not have to go to School it being Saturday.Father gave Bob. that old box of Mrs. Richardson's and the contents except some things that Marie took out and a "squirtgun" Father let me
				   have, am glad it is a way because it was always in the way.Knew my verses good, and got through my work in good time.This evening am going over to the church to sing, George Baxter say's he wants to join the (an old mistake) choir .  Mother is now prac-ticing , wish
				   I loved it as she does.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, November 11, 1866.It has been a dark, rainy gloomy.  Yesterday evening I went over to the sing Dr. Minor did not come till late so we boys plaied on Mrs. Hair's swing
				   till he did ; we had a good time singing , I wish we would have to sing longer.This evening I went to Sunday-school, we have admit-ted three more singers Addie Hoss, George Baxter and Charlie Krutch, all of them can sing pretty good.
				   After I came from Sunday-school Mother and I went to church.Said twenty of my Psalm's last night and said twenty this morning be fore S.S. so I got through in good time.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, November 12, 1866.A very pleasant cold day.  This morning I went after the corn-meal when I watered Grant .This morning I went to school , got there in good time , had to read a long time this morning do not know what made Mr. Payne make me so long for, it was longer
				   than any one else.This noon I forgot to take my German-Gram-mar home, till I had got almost down the hill, and as I had to go back after it, it made me very late home. Took a
				   music lesson.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, November 13, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant, but rather cold day.This morning I went to school got there just in time, Mr. Trowbridge from Constantinople prayed, he came into the History class and heard us read, after we were
				   through he told us about where he had been. He came into the Arithmatic class too, I had to recite both times .At recess we all played "Hickermadickerry" if you ever heard of such a game, Clif. Paterson has got a bugle and when he was catcher he would blow to let us
				   know he was around, we had a good time.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, November 14, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day except this even-ing it rained a little and is raining now.This morning I went to school got there just in time for the chapel.Did not get through my German till very late; in fact am not through yet, but am going to say it after I study it.Have just come from watering the horses.Bob. has been here cutting up the oats , Father got a load of apples he carried those in.  Father has got the head-ache this evening. he did not look well all day.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, November 15, 1866.Last night there was a large fire , it was about half-past eleven when I woke up and saw an awful light , I hurriedly put on my pants and study gown and went into
				   Mothers old room and looked out the window, to see what it was; staid in there a good while; I wanted to go down and ask Father what he thought it was, but I was
				   afraid he was asleep ; but after a while I heard the nursury door shut, so I knew they were awake, as Father was sick he could not go out , so Mother told me to dress
				   myself and run up and see ; it was Mr. Bradley's store and three little grocery store, they were all burned to the ground.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, November 16, 1866.This morning when I first got up it was very dark, but has be pleasant all day.  This morning I went to school, got there just in time to get to the chapel, we will be
				   through our History pretty soon.Yesterday I did not take a music lesson as Mrs. Wicks has gone down to Athens on a visit she will be back Saturday so Ella said.This morning I said my German before school.Father went to market and got some liver I tell you it was good, Father does not like it but Mother and I do very much.  Have got the sore throat.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, November 17, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant day. This morning I took another bag of corn to the mill to be grown-ed, can not get it till Monday morning. This morning Father saw a fox run
				   under the house, I tell you if it gets among the chickens it will ruin them.This evening Mother and Father have gone in the country, about six miles donot know when they will be back.The boys are here now for the choir , I donot know wheather I had better go or not, Mother told me to stay at home as Dr. Minor had not got back, but they say he has.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, November 18, 1866.It has been a very cold but pleasant Sunday.Yesterday Dr. Minor did not come after all, so Horace Gates staid with me a good while. Yesterday Andy brought another load of shaving's for the horses, he unloaded
				   it right in the lain so I had to shovel it all in the stable.This morning Mother and I went to church, it was well filled but not crowded Horace Gates set with me.This morning I went to Sunday school Dr. Minor was not there so we could not sing in the choir, to our great disappointment.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, November 19, 1866.It has been a dark gloomy day.  Last night Mother, Father and I went out to the asylum at Aunt Anna's, they have got the building fixed up nice, the baby is very
				   pretty, it has got such pretty blue eyes; Aunt gave us some lemonade and sugar ginger cakes they were very nice; we staied till after eight , I think.Am writing my Journal at school this evening.This morning I went to school as usual, did not get there in time for the chapel. We are in multiplication of fractions now.Mother could not get her clothes dry as it rained.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, November 20, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day but it is very muddy.To day Mother got her clothes dry as it did not rain.This morning I went to school got her just in time for the chapel.  We got through through our History and are going to study English Grammar and recite it to Mr. Payne
				   at the same hour we recited our History.  We had a new scholar he came with Sam. Boyd, do not know his name.In Latin we are at the verbs, they are funny I tell you.Yesterday evening Mr. Brack-et told Mother that he was com-ming up to see us this evening.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, November 21, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant but cold day.Last night Miss Jennie Sheppard was married, at the church, I went; Mother did not  Capt. Chamberlain and a lady stood up them , they were a long time beginning,
				   but after they did begin it did not last long.  This morning I went to school, as usual, got there just in time for the chapel.We had another scholar that makes three scholar's we have had this week.This morning I recited my Grammar to Mr. Payne.  In Arithmatic we are must to division of fractions Mr. Payne says they a very heard.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, November 22, 1866.It has been a very cold but pleasant day.This morning I went to school got there in good time for the chapel and had a little time to play besides, we play ball most of the time now.This evening I took a music lesson , took the rest of the ninth exercise am just in the same place Mother is.This evening Tom. Nelson apoligised to Mr. Allen for having talked so to him be cause he said Mr. Humes told him if he did not they would ex pell him.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, November 23, 1866.It has been a very pleasant but cold day.This morning I went to school as usual got there in good time both this morning and noon.In Latin we are ungugating the neuter verb "sum" it is hard I tell you today it was the In-dicative word. for tommorrow it is the subjunctive.To day I got home before they had began to eat dinner it is the first time in a long time, got home this evening in good time this evening too.This evening Mother and Father have gone in the country horse-back, expect they will be back pretty soon, want to fix the stables before they do come.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, November 24, 1866.It has been a very cold day.  This morning Mother and I threw in that load of corn that came yesterday she says she threw in six to my four but I think it was the other
				   way.  Did not have to go to school it being Saturday.Yesterday day evening I was just putting on my clothes to take care of the stable when Father and Mother got back from their ride.To day Dr. Minor was here for dinner .  Father went to market this morning and what do you think he got ? I will tell you: some pork, sausage, liver and beef, we are getting
				   fashionable.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, November 25, 1866.It has been a pleasant Sunday.  Last night did not know my verses a bit, but knew them a little better this morn-ing.  This morning I went Sun-day School sang the new piece
				   up in the choir , after School Mother and I went to church.While I was teaching Lizzie Johanna came to see us after I got "through teaching" Johanna and I sang some of our Sunday school pieces.This evening Father had to go across the river so Mother went too.  O! I for got to say the bride (Jennie Shepard) was at church with her husband.Have got some news Miss Hatty Smily has married Will. Henderson.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, November 26, 1866.It has been a very pleasant cool day.Yesterday evening Father had to go to East Knox-ville Mother and I went too , but while Father was waiting on his paerint;
				   Mother and I took a walk.Last night in the night a man came after Father to go in the country , I thought he was going to tare down the house he jerked the bell so.  He did not get back in time
				   for me to clean Billy before breakfast , but did after-wards, he was dirty enough I tell you.Did not have to say any German as I said it Saturday.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTo day I had the headache all day, when I was writing my latin Dr. Minor saw I looked drowsy and sleepy and he said Hill! what is the matter, I told him I was sick;
				   about half-past two I was very cold, I looked round and held up my hand the monitor sasid yes , then I got up and asked him if I might set by the stove, he said yes;
				   after a while I held up my hand again and asked him if I could go and see Dr. Minor, he says are you that sick I told him I would have to go home or see him; so he said
				   yes; so I went into his reciting room annd he told me to go home and go to bed.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, November 28, 1866.Yesterday when I got home Father was in the country and Mother was out calling, and when she got home she found me sick and the horses nor nothing else taken care of.
				   Have been sick all day with the chills and fever,  In the night Father woke me up and gave me a pill, I took another one to day.Have been feeling very dull and stupid all day, have not been in bed.  Mrs. Cooper was here most of the day, and Mother has been helping her make a morning gown.Mr. Luttrell was here for dinner; the same gentl-man that was at the Springs when I was.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, November 29, 1866.It has been a dark, rainy gloomy day.  To day was thanks giving day.  Mother went to church.  Mother and Father were envited to dinner out to the asylum to Aunt
				   An-nas but as it was rainy they did not go, but I do not beleive Father "wanted" to go.Aunt Anna with Sally was here this evening, she said she almost cried because Mr. Jackson's folks and we did not come.  To I do not think I was worse but have been
				   in bed all day as this my chill day, and Father wanted to prevent it.Mrs. Cooper staied here to supper too.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, November 30, 1866.It has been a very cold day.Last night I took some calomell and this morning two little pills to cary it off.  At noon got up and ate my din-ner in the dining room.Have been feeling very well ever since I have been up thinking I will feel better, still! tomorrow, and perhaps I can go to school Monday.  Yesterday evening Mrs. Jones
				   brought us some ginger-cakes and some custard , I had a piece of a cake , but could have no custard, as it would make me sick to my stomac.This evening Marie has gone away do not know where. You ought to see how she made the stove shine.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, December 1, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant day. To day I have been feeling very well have been up all day.Father has been sick in bed all day hope he will be better by tomorrow.To day Marie gave me some old pieces of stockings to un-ravel and make me a ball out of; after I got it made I plaied with it a long time in the dining room : I read
					some in my "Every boys book." I drew some too in my new book.  They are shingling the stable right across the fence and I don't beleive Father could
				   sleep much on that account.Some callers have just been to see Mother.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, December 2, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant but cold day.Yesterday I could not go over to the sing.This morning Horace Gates came here to see how I was, I told him I though he was late comming as I was almost well.  This morning Mother went to church, but would
				   not let me go; while she was gone Mr. Tarwater came to see Father, but he had gone to church , so he waited  I think he is a very interesting man.Taught Lizzie this morn-ing as I did not go with Moth-er. Johanna is now here with Henry.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, December 3, 1866.It has been a cloudy day looked like rain but has not yet.  This morning I got up with the headache, and have had it all day.This morning I swept and dusted the nursury office and hall then I took a pan full of water and washed my win-dow-sill then my door's where I make finger
				   marks  I done a good deal did I not ?Last night I read in my Young folks till it was time for me to go to bed.Went down and told Mrs. Wicks that I could not take a music lesson, as I had not practiced any; the bell just rang for the boys to go in up at the college.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, December 4, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day.  This morning I felt very well except my head-ached a little, at noon it did not ache any , I went down town and had my head or
				   hair cut rather, he did not cut it close enough to suit Mother, it cost thirty-five cents.To day the Miss's Boli's came to see Mother they staid a good while.This morning I took the little stand down to Mr. Newman's to get that leg on it fixed  Mr. Jones fix-ed it.  This morning I made me a splendid bat for knock-ing
					my ball, have not got any except some rag's with a little yarn wraped over it, that Marie gave me.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, December 5, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day.To day I went to school for the first time since I have had the chills , I like it very well, the boys keep asking where I have been all of the time, those that stay
				   in the chapel say have you got a room now?, Mr. Payne told me I had to go in the lowest latin class and the next two, but Mr. Allen told me that perhaps it would take
				   all of the session for the small boys to catch up where we were when I got sick , and it would be better for me to study hard and catch up than to go into the lowest class.Father got me a pair of boots , I wore them to school they hurt my feet.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, December 6, 1866.It has been a gloomy disagreeable day.  I have caught up with in my German now to where I was before I had the chills the first time, I am trans-lating some of the new
				   readings.This morning I recited my Arithmatic to Mr. Payne the boys had not gone as far as I expected, it rained at recess a little so we could not play much.At noon I did not know my German so I could not get there for my latin class, but have to recite it to him. (Dr. Minor) after school. Have to take a music lesson this evening.This evening I have got the head-ache, guess it will be better after I get out.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, December 7, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. This morning I went to school as usual, got there in time for the chapel, got there both this morning and noon in good time, I will have
				   to speak pretty soon, a week from to day have to hand in a composition , I dread that.After we recite Mondays lesson, we have caught up to decimals.I am envited to a party of Romao Spene's , do not know wheather Mother let me go or not, hope she will.I practiced three quarters of an hour at school today.Yesterday evening I took a music lesson, took the rest of the tenth exercise it is hard I tell you.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, December 8, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day.  Last night I went to the part-y of Romao Speau's, it was a candy pulling
					I should say instead of a party , there were not great many present , that is the reason we had so much fun, we plaied "charade's" "stealing
					grapes", and "around this carpet you must kneal",  I took Ella Lock and Addie Hoss home, Jim. Maynard took Emma.Last night I had a good deal of misfortune; Billy broke his halter and knocked the plank down and then pushed the gate open and got out in the streat, and rolled
				   in all of the mud, so to day  I just had to scrub him and am going to curry him, after a while as he was too wet this morning.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, December 9, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Last night Dr. Minor was here for supper, he said he was going to give up his Sunday School choir, for they do not behave,
				   (you know I have not been there for a long time) George Baxter done some-thing that the Dr. did not like but to day we begged him so hard he said he would.There was no church as Mr. Hums went away some where, "Mother and I did not go any other place."  This evening Marie has gone away.Today I taught Lizy the sound of b, p; d and t, in. and n it is awful hard to teach .Mother and I are going out to Aunt Anna's.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, December 10, 1866.It has been a very cold day.Yesterday evening Mother and I were going out to Mrs. Jones's but as we were going out the door I tore her dress , so she could not go.This morning I took Billy to the blacksmiths shop to be shodd , as I had to go to school Father went after him.The other day when Father went away with Grant he got him so dirty , it took all of my spair time to curry him and now he is nothing like clean.This morning I went to school as usual, in Arith-matic we have got the first part of decimals.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, December 11, 1866.It has been another very cold day.  This morning at school Mr. Payne did not do any thing else but make us read decemals in Arith-matic.  At recess Julius
					Kniabe and Jash. Caldwell had a fight, Jash stole Julius's apple, Mr. Rice the moniter would not let Jash go home to dinner for punishment.This noon I did not know my German so I did not get to school in time for my class,  Mother told me to recite it to Dr. Minor after school, it took me
				   sometime to find him and then he said he possibly could not hear it.  The evening when I got home Mrs. Trobridge was here , and Father was fixing the dinning-room table.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, December 12, 1866.It has been a very cold but pleasant day the wind just howl-ed up on college hill.This morning we spent most of the time in Arithmatic in reading decimals , for to mor-row is the subtraction of decimalsTodays latin was the con-jugation of the verb "amo", it is not hard for me as I have got "sum" perfectly.Bob. was here today cut-ting up the wood and pack-ing the hay, he ate dinner here but did not stay in the after-noon.This morning I had the sore throat, but this evening it has all past away. Did not get up very early will try and do better to morrow.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, December 13, 1866.It has been another cold but very pleasant day.  This morn-ing I got up at half-past five oclock, recited my German and read all except my story and the conver-sation,
				   got through in good time.This morning I took two bottles of wine up to Dr. Minor, as he was not in his room I left them on his desk.This morning about twenty boys were too late for the chapel, as they went skating on the pond, the ice was not very thick and the boys were trying to back each other out
				   going across the pond, Alf. Bax-ter thought no one could back him out, and struck out, but after he got about in the middle , the ice gave way and down he went.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, December 14, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day.Yesterday evening Father and Mother took a ride , I was practicing when they came back, Grant was "pretty sweaty" when they got back, but I scrubed
					hard on him and got him "pretty clean", got up I guess about fifteen min-utes to six.  This morning I recited all of my German before school, but
				    did not have time to read any.This morning I went to school as usual , we revew two pages every day in Arithmatic.  Yesterday even-ing I took a music lesson did not take any thing more.This noon I got there in good time, George White made two "eyes" in playing "Town Ball" before the bell rang.  To days latin was the passive
					voice of "amo" anior.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, December 15, 1866.It has been a gloomy disagree-able day.  Last night Billy broke his halter , and as I forgot to shut the door by the coal pen he got out in-to the yard, Mother
				   come up stairs and woke me up and I went down and got him in, he was not as dirty as I expected he would be.Did not have to go to school today it being Saturday.Last night I did not know my verses so I had to say the forty Psalms to day.Marie did not shell any corn so I did not have to go to the mill.  Do not beleive there will be any singing this evering as it rains so, Dr. Minor will not want
				   to come over in the mud.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, December 16, 1866.It rained some to day, but this evening it has been snow-ing.  Yesterday evening Lizzie and I plaied up in the lane half-of an hour, we had fun running too.  This
				   morning I got all through saying my verses before Sun-day school, as I said twenty Psalms last night, I learned my verses for this week yesterday.This morning Mother and I went to church , Mr. Humes preached about "John" preparing the way for Christ , as it is most Christmas . To day I have been teaching
				   Lizzie more of the sounds. she learned them quick this even-ing.  This evening Mother and Father have gone out to the Asylum to see her sister.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, December 17, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant day.  This morning I did not get up as early as usual.This morning I practiced instead of saying my German, could not practice an hour.This morning I went to school as usual got there in good time, both this morning and noon.  Father got a letter from Mrs. Richardson , she said that Emma
					started to day for home and will be here Wednesday, Mother is going to give her Mrs. Heald's old room, she can only stay two weeks, I tell you I will
					be glad to see her.  Last night I began to read one of Emma's books, the name of it is "The first and last journey."sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, December 18, 1866.It has been another very pleasant day.  This Morn-ing when Marie woke me up Fa-ther was up too trying to fix the dinning-room table , he did not get through
				   so we ate on the kitchen table.This morning when I went to school the ground was very hard, but this eveing it is very muddy as the mud is frozen.This morning I practiced an hour before school, and at noon  I got through reading my German.  This noon I got to school in time to make one "eye"
				   and then get knocked out, as George White hit me, with the ball, and just then the bell rang.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, December 19, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day, is very muddy up on the hill.This morning I went to school as usual got there just in time for the chapel, had not had my seat but a moment when the bell stopped.Am writing my Journal at school, and do not know whea-ther Emma has come or not, Father did not get a dispatch this morning so I do not know, hope she has come.Yesterday Bob. was here cut-ting up the wood he did not get through, but did today.This noon I read my Ger-man and recited my lesson too, before school and got there in time.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, December 20, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day.  Yesterday evening Emma did not come but she will come this evening as Father got a dis-patch, do not know where from I guess
				   Bristol , Mr. Allen excused me from spelling.This morning I went to school as usual , got just in time for the chapel, we did not eat dinner at the usual hour as Fa-ther wanted to wait till Emma came, I
				   read my German before school, and got there in good time.This evening I am go-ing to take a music lesson, but am going home first to see Emma, see is comming with Dr. Minor's brother, he was tikeled when I told him.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, December 21, 1866.Yesterday evening Emma came , Mr. Allen and Dr. Minor excused me from spelling, as I wanted to see her, you had better beleive I come a kiting down the hill , just I
				   opened the door she wasd just comming to meat me , she has not grown very much, and I did not think at first that she looked like she used to, but I think she does now.
				   She plaied some for us last night , and I had to play some for her.  She came with Dr. Minors brother, I have not seen him, I did not go down to the railroad.Last night I wrote a com-position, I wrote it once before for Mother the name of it was the dis obedient, boy.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, December 22, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day. Last night Mr. and Mrs. San-ford and Mrs. Cooper came to see Emma, I had gone to bed and was asleep before they went away.Did not have to go to school it being Saturday and then Christmas week began to day , school will take up again the last of Dec.This morning I took a bag of corn to the mill to be growned, can not get it till Monday.Mrs. Heald came to see Emma, Emma plaied and sang for her. Did not know my twen-ty Psalms last night so I had to learn next weeks verses and say the forty to day,
				   did not get through till late. To day Father said Sam. Luttrell was married.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, December 23, 1866.It has not been a very pleasant day.  Yesterday evening I went up to the drug-store to get a cigar box to make Lizzie a little cradle for Cristmas, I worked some
					on it last night, have made all but the runners; I am going to get a little doll for her and won't she be tickled, Mo-ther has got her a dress, a pair of
				    stockings , and I have got a pin cushon a belt , and Marie an hand-kerchief and a needle.This morning I did not get to Sunday school till late, after that Emma, Mother and I went to church, the people just gased at Emma. This evening May Gredig came to
				   see Marie, she staied a good while.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, December 24, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day.  This morning I water-ed the horses seperately , as I had to go after the meal, Grant always stands still untied, but while I was
				   in the mill a man on a horse came across the bridge, and Grant followed him, when the meal was ready, I went out to get on , and I looked up the street and there was the
				   horse galloping away with the man, and the man did not have sense enough to stop, a black man caught him for me.I went down to Mr. New-man's and finished Lizzies cradle, then I went down town and got a doll for her, Emma is making a dress for it, she will be tickeled.sentence of grammar practice in GermanTuesday, December 25, 1866.It has been a very pleasant Christmas.  Last night I did not hang up my stocking as I do every Christmas, but in the morning I could tell very quick what was mine, as
				   among the things there was a nice hat, I knew it was for me.  Will tell you what I got, first a book splendidly bound, about three inches thick, four wide and 6 long
				   the name of it was "Homes without hands", a re-ceipt book for a Journal, and a nice painting from Emma; three nice cravats, some candy and my hat full of chestnuts.Marie got a dress pattern, a pair of stockings and some candy.  I told you what Lizzie got or was going to get.sentence of grammar practice in GermanWednesday, December 26, 1866.Last night I was very tired,  When I got home from the country I found Father sick in bed, I had to go to Dr. Rodger's store after some cloroform as ours was shut up.Did not get through my work till about four oclock, as I did not begin till late.Charlie Smith came after his buggy wrench but somebody has taken it.  To day Ruf. Williams came to see Emma, Mother thought he was going to stay all day.  Do not feel very
				   well this evening.Have to go down to the store for Emma.Did not know my verses well.sentence of grammar practice in GermanThursday, December 27, 1866.It has been a very cold but pleasant day.  Yesterday evening I went down town to get Emma some rushes , but there were none in town like she wanted, so I
				   got some lace and she made some.Last night Miss Kate Baxter and Mr. E. P. Baily were married at the church, I went, Emma did not got to the mar-rage , but to the party.In the night Father had to go in the country , he did not get back till late this morning.This evening Mother and Emma have gone out do not know where.  I have to go done to Mrs. Finlie's and get some milk.Am going Cal. and Frank Mc Clungs party.sentence of grammar practice in GermanFriday, December 28, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant day.  Last night I went to the party at Frank Mc Clung's, had a splendid time, there were a great many envited; Mrs.
				   Charlie Mc Clung got up all of the playies, I was in bed when the clock (the town clock) struck nine so for the first time in a long time I came home in the
				   right time.To day we had a "big" dinner , Mr. and Mrs. Humes, Mr. and Mrs. Smith, Mr. and Mrs. Cooper and Mrs. Sanford, I waited on the table.Mother in going to have a "big" supper to night, don't you pity me, for I expect I will have to wait on the table again.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSaturday, December 29, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant day it is snowing this even-ing.  Last night we had a "big" supper , it was after eleven when I went to bed.I have to go after milk every morning now, yesterday I got two quarts as we were going to have company , but this morning I only got one quart, I get it
					down at Mrs. Finlie's.Took Mrs. Smiths goblets and wine glasses back this morn-ing, after that I went to the store and got two gallons and a half, it took me awful long as there
				   was no one to wait on me.This P. M. Ruf. Williams came to see Emma but she has gone away.sentence of grammar practice in GermanSunday, December 30, 1866.It has been a very pleas-ant day, but the coldest we have had this year , or rather this Winter.  Yesterday evening I went about getting money from the children,
				   I only got two dollars last night but all of the rest was promised for this morning got all the rest at Sunday school except Alf. and George Baxter and Herman Schenck,
				   I went over there this evening and got it, he came home with me.This morning I went after the milk, Mrs. Finly was not at home so Mrs. Flenikan gave it to me.Mother, Emma and I went to church.Mother and Father went to walk.sentence of grammar practice in GermanMonday, December 31, 1866.It has been a very pleasant day.Yesterday evening Mother and Father went some place I do not know where, after that, she and Em-ma went to church for the last time for a long time may be.This morning I went after my milk as usual. I saw Mrs. Wicks on the way she told me not to take a music lesson, I saw H. B. Rice he told me that he was not going to
				   school up here any more but was going to start for Massachusetts to day.This morning I went to school as usual, Will Rice is monitor now.  This evening Emma has gone out calling.This is the last time I will write my Journal in this booksentence of grammar practice in GermanMemoranda          .75          170
					          40           40 L &W 
				              35          130
				                           25
				        Cents R$10        105