Page 1

Knoxville Tennessee April 24th 64 Friend John Yours of the 10th I received last wednesday morning the 20th at Mossy Creek Station a little while before we left there. we started from there about noon of the same day on the train for this place. our horses came by the wagon road and did not get ehre till the next day. I understand we have been ordered here to get a new outfit or partly new. yesterday the officers turned over the Battery and part of our horses and drew some new horses and were to draw new harness this morning but it has not got up from the cars yet. where will go to next is a mystery to us but most all are willing to go anywhere else than up the railroad. there is some talk of our going towards Chattanooga but I guess that has not been decided upon yet. they keep strengthening this place gradually putting up earthworks

Page 2

so that by and by it will bother the rebels some to get if they should even try. and now they are beginning to ship some siege guns here and provisions. they are jest more than fetching them here by the river and railroad depos are filled up and warehouses after warehouses are being filled with all kind of supplies. there is piles of mess pork down on the platform piled up here or there. and any amount of amunition also being stored here, so that we will never be as short of amunition again as we were during the siege. Thursday there was 10-20 pounds parrots rifled pieces. new ones came up on that train from Chattanooga. and there to larger ones coming. well I have about come to the conclusion that I dont care much were we to to we have been here long enough. we have had a very backward spring here. but for the last few days it has been quite warm and I am in hopes it will hold so now for while we were up at the front it was nothing but wind rain and snow

Page 3

our Capt got back last night. he made out to recruit 9 men but there has only one got here yet. and I'll bet he will wish himself out of it before long. I am well and so are Jim and Reid. my respects to all the folks and yourself and family John Watkins direct as usual

