Page 1

Clinton, Tenn March 30th 1864 My Dear Jeannie Oh, how I long for a letter from you, Oh, how it would ease my anxious mind! I have watched and waited many a weary week, but all to no purpose. Will's letter of the 12th consoled me somewhat, but it left me somewhat in doubt in reference to your health -- indeed, I am becoming apprehensive lest you be gradually failing. May Heaven grant it otherwise to my darling. Do you receive my letters? I write you at least twice a week and avail myself of the politeness of every one going to Knoxville -- and I make it my business to go there myself at least once a week to deposit and get my mail.Can it be that the Post Office is so execrably managed or is my precious too ill to write? I have nothing new to communicate to you -- we still occupy the same dilapidated town of Clinton. March is putting

Page 2

on blustering airs and turning the cold shoulder to us -- all of which you know adds nothing to one's mental vivacity. Are you all compelled to go through the miseries of house-hunting or has your landlord reconsidered his intention of selling? I heartily wish that you may not be compelled to move this season -- the more particularly that vacant houses are so scarce. I suppose that rents have advanced at an enormous percent. A newspaper paragraph informs me that MM B. Astor has raised his to 20 percent and adds the paragraph "Poor Fellow!" I wonder, Darling, whether when we become rich we shall too forget the poor? I wrote you last Monday and have answered Will's letter. My anxious fears have driven me to enlarge my correspondence. I cannot rest without hearing from you, even though it be indirectly. I dreamed the other night of seeing you sad and wobegone in the gallery of a crowded church. I tried

Page 3

to get to you, but somehow missed you in the crowd. I have been worrying myself about you ever since -- I know that there is nothing in these dreams, but they will leave disagreeable and not-easy-to-be dispelled impressions. I have had my fears excited ever since lest you have fallen into some sickness -- a sickness too that may have had its origin in some mental distress. I have determined somehow to get to see you before a great while -- a leave of absence presents a better chance than a resignation and I therefore base my best hopes upon that. And when I have been entirely released from my engagements with the Government, it will be some time before I venture away without your society. I tell you that I can not help envying George's comfortable position -- all the pleasures of home and any quantity of praise from all quarters by way of boot. While I must suffer isolation and be constantly reminded in effect that I was a fool for going. But I look to a brighter

Page 4

future when our constancy shall meet with its exceeding great reward -- when the fiery ordeal through which we are now passing will bring us out brighter and purer gold -- when we shall envy no one's happiness in the bosom of our own family, in a home of our own, all lit up with the smiles of domestic love & peace. I think, Jeannie, that this lot will eventually be ours -- I know that you deserve it, and I would shrink from no hardship, if I knew that I could but achieve it for you. Kiss our little pledge for her absent but not forgetful Pa -- be assured of my constant and ardent love. Remember me to Mother and Fran -- tell them to care well for you until I return. Don't omit taking exercise -- fresh air, you know, is a great health restorative. Write soon -- address as before Clinton via Knoxville Tenn. May Heaven protect and defend you from all harm. And Now Adieu John I suppose that you have received my answer to Albert's letter directed to your care. You may also say to him that I have enquired for his relative at Knoxville and that his name could not be found in the books. But that however does not prove a great deal as no registry was kept until lately. Tell him to write me again -- and by no means to omit saying something in regard to you all. Yours John Can you send me some stamps -- they are hard to get here now. I have a good supply of paper.

