Page 1

Mrs Mary Helsley Southington Trumbull Co Ohio

Page 2

Chattanooga, Tenn. Sept the 7th/4 Beloved Mary It is greate pleasure to me to write to you and to day I have nothing to do and I will write you a letter and hope that it will find you well. as it leaves me well and in good spirits I was on duty yesterday and last night I have this day to myself and I am going to spend it in writing letters and the first one is to you. and I hope they give you as much pleasure reading them as it is for me to write them I am haveing very easy times here. and I am going to stay here as long as I can. I wrote for my Descriptive Roll a few days ago and if I can git it I will get my pay. but may be a good while before they send it me, as the army is on the

Page 3

move. you have heard of the Battle at Atlanta before this time and the defeat of the Rebel Army and they are now Retreating and our Army is after them and it may be some time before they come to a halt. and by the latest reports old General Sermen has about used up the Rebel Army he has taken large numbers of Prisoneers and a good deal of their Artillery and I hpe he will disstroy the whole of the Rebbel Army and then we can send about half of this army to Virginia and then Richmond will have to come down I do not believe that Richmond will be taken untill this Westren army goes there and takes it. Thare was one of our scouts came in to day and Reported that John Morgan was killed and all of his staff taken Prisoneers he was suppriesed by some of our cavelry at Bulls Gap up in Eeast Tenn and all of his forces was scattered and I guess that it all true

Page 4

for it was confirmed in this morning paper. I hope that it is so our men are going for the rebs and I hope that it will soon filery out Things look to me more now as if the war would soon be over then it has for some time. I think a few more months will tell the story. We are haveing a greate deal of rain down here and very hot weather but it will not be long till it will begin to git cool but I must close and hope you will soon git this. My love to all of you Goobye Good Bye William J Helsley

