Page 1

Charles Pettit Esqr Philadelphia New York 1st May 1802 V. Dupont DeNemours &Co. Soliciting agency in French affairs put under Care of Mr LeGrange

Page 2

Mr. Charles Pettit New-York, 1st may, 1802. Sir, The Partnership of the House of Du Pont de Nemours, Sons, and Co. being dissolved in this country, and the same established in Paris, We have the honour of informing you that the business will in future be conducted here by Victor Du Pont, under the firm of Victor Du Pont de Nemours, and Co. who alone will exercise the privilege of the signature, of which you are requested to take notice. Exclusive of the operations we shall enter into upon our own account, we intend to devote ourselves principally to the Commission Business in all its branches, such as Consignments ; Sales, Purchases, and Shipments of Merchandize ; Insurances ; Purchases of Land or Stocks ; Collection and Remittance of Interest and Dividends ; Settlement of Old Accounts, Recovery of Debts, Etc. In any or all of these we tender you our services. We flatter ourselves that the zeal and promptitude with which our business is transacted ; the respectability of our character, well known both in Europe and America ; and the competency of our funds to every emergency, will be some recommendation to your confidence. You may depend upon finding with us every accomodation which circumstances and the nature of your operations may require. We remain, respectfully, V. du Pont de Nemours &Co.

Page 3

Sir In addition to the within, we have to observe that the time is arrived when claims on the French Government will be paid or funded according to their nature and date. We take the liberty to tender you the best services of our friends in Paris, Messrs. du Pont de Nemours, Pere, Fils & Cie. who from having a thorough knowledge of the mode of transacting all business with the public ( as well as from a personal acquaintance and intimacy be- tween Mr. Du Pont de Nemours and most of the members of Government ) will have it in their power to be very useful in recovering those claims. Many cases have already been intrusted to them by our American friends. Any demand, accompanied with the necessary vouchers, may be sent directly to them at the Boulevard Montemartre, No. 541, or remitted to us here, pledging ourselves for their zeal and punctuality. However as they are not personally known to you we beg leave to refer you for particular inquiries to the French Minister in this country, James Casenvoc &Co London, Bodumon Oduit &Co Hamburg, Jnos Davillius &Co Paris Respectfully Your H Servt V. du Pont de Nemours &Coy.

