Page 1

Mrs. E.A. R. Breck Charlotte N.C. Via Richmond Va

Page 2

Nashville Ten Auugust 4th My Dear Sister I was please to receive your very kind letter by to-days mail and was very glad to hear that Papa and Ma are well and that they stand our defeat and their loss of property with Christian fortitude that is as it should be, but few persons of their age could have stood the troubles and trials they have had with such fortitude. I have no doubt but what we all by industry and energy will be enabled to get along comfortably and happy yet, and after things get quiet may be able to recover their property, if not we can get along very well without it I was also pleased to learn that Ehisk Robert and Mark were well you did not say any thing about Susan, but I presume she is well. I have commenced the practice

Page 3

of my profession and have had some business I am boarding with Uncle William, they are all very kind to me, my health has improved though I am still weak, the walk however in the morning and evening I think will be of service to me soon Tenes I have no doubt will pay your coupons when presented, but I would not have the money sent by mail, if the Express is running as far as Charlotte, have it sent that way. I am at a great to know how to advise you all I am like you I have a great distaste for East Ten but I dont think that their would be any impropriety in you and Mack returning to Knoxville on a visit and see if you cant get your property back and then rent or sell it. I suppose you could get transportation. Mr Simmons and Dr Hall are both living here I spoke to Mr S if he could not get Mack employment as a clerk here

Page 4

he said he thought he could. I told him that I did not know whether he had employment or weather he would like to come here he told me to write to him and if he wanted a situation he would try and get him one see Mack about it It will not be safe for Robert to come to Tennessee at present. I will let know when to come if he wants to return. Their are some cases pending in the State and Federal Courts at Knoxville against me expect I will be compelled to be there in October or November to attend to them. I will however try to have them arranged without having to go there. I have much appreciation for Pardon and my papers are in charge of Judge Patterson (the Presidents son in law and M.S. Senator from Ten) He is a particular friend of mine and visited me while imprisoned at Knoxville I saw him a few days ago as he was going on to Washing

Page 5

ton and had a long conversation with him he also agreed to take charge of Papas case he seems to think that we will have no dificulty in getting them through. I expect to hear from him in a week or two about our applications and will let Papa know the result of his application. Uncle Carrick and family passed through here a few weeks ago on their way to Clarksville Ten they have settled there and I hear that he is getting some practice. I frequently hear from Knoxville and see every day or two some one from the place the sentiment is still bad and outrages are still committed upon Southern men No prominent Southern men have returned and what are there are making arrangments to leave I get letters from M.J. (my Sister) most every week she is well as to her marrage I presume she is satisfied with it and of course I am I hope she Mr McKnitt will make her a kind and an affect

Page 6

ionate husband She has had a hard time of it few women could have gone through what she has She was very devoted to me while I was in prison there and was of great service to me She writes me some very good letters (one of the very best I ever received) I am saving it to show it to you all She is a Christian and a noble woman What a great pleasure it would be to us all if we were all living near each other. I dont know how Pap would like to live in East Ten again but I have no doubt but what he could live in comfort and with more care on Margaret Janes place than any other. I have not doubt but what it would be perfectly safe for him there (after while) No one would do him any personal

Page 7

harm the class of man that are committing them these outrages are worthless and the moral men of the country are doing all they can to put a stop to it public sentiment will soon correct the outlaws I doubt the propriety of a man of his age moving to a new country among strangers unless he had means these are questions for future considerations you are all quaintly situated and it is best to wait patiently until the country becomes settled and peace entirely returned and then we can better judge as to what will be the best. What a great contrast between this peace place and East Ten here their is now now distinction between Union and Southern men that is as it should be. I often think of you all with the kindest of feelings and would be pleased to be with you all once more and I hope I may be able to do so some time. Remember me kindly and affectionately to all Will be pleased to hear from you all often Yours truly J.C. Ramsey

