Page 1

Charlotte N.C. March 5,1871 Charton & Lewis Your favor inclosing Tax Reciept for taxes on Mrs Brecks farm for 1870 was I believe duly acknowledged Her sister Mrs. Dickson writes me under recent date that the Tax Collector had applied to her for payment of tax for 1869. This was thought by us to have been paid. In reference to that Mrs. D. sayis in her letter I gave uncle John M. Crozier in 1869 $22 or $24.00 I forget which what the rent corn sold for. You wrote me to give it to him to pay taxes with. The Crist Boys had put some in the Bank to Mrs Brecks credit " N.M. I suppose Col. Crozier has either forgotten the payment made to him by Mrs. Dickson or that he may have mixed it up with monies of my own remitted from time to time to me. Please call Col. Co, attention to this matter. If he recollects the payment from Mrs. D. please apply it to the payment of the tax for 1869. If he has no recollection of it or if it may have been otherwise appropriated this will authorise you to see Mr. Mitchell & enquire whether the Crists boys - (former tennants of Mrs. Breck ) deposited to her credit the proceeds of her oats rents for 1869 & if they did so

Page 2

she requests you to use the amt. necessary for the tax to that purpose If there should not be enough on deposit to meet the tax this letter authorises you to receive the requisite amount from Mr. Mitchell from a special deposit in his vault of Bank of Tennessee money which I see is good in payment of taxes taking the collectors receipt & inclosing it to me. - Have the tax paid at once for 1869 & thus save the expense of costs to her. The tax for 1871 is not yet due L.W. Baines small grain rent will be collectable & due in July & will liquidate the tax for this year Mrs Breck desires me to re renew her former requests to you to keep the sale of her plantation steadily in mind Baine supposed he would be able to pay for it this spring. If so, will at former figures - If not you may reduce the price a little. She desires to effect sales at once if you can. Thus far as you know the place is unremunerative & she wishes to make a better investment. Very Respectfully Yours M J.G.M. Ramsey Please say to Whig & Register to send me their paper to Charlotte N.C. as I will not come to Knoxville this spring as I expected to do at Christmas when I ordered it sent there.

