Page 1

The following text is a continuation of the third page of the letter. earnestly do I pray that he may be your friends that of your dear brothers & your guide even unto death and that his rich grace may eventually bring you all to that happy place of unallayed enjoyment where your pious parents as I doubt not have met & enjoy each other & their God. The preceding text is a continuation of the third page of the letter. Doctr James G.M. Ramsey Knoxville E.T. Mail The following text is a note added by J.G.M. Ramsey. Rev. R. Hendersons letter to me with a draft of the one that occasioned it. J.G.M. Ramsey The preceding text is a note added by J.G.M. Ramsey. The following text is a continuation of the third page of the letter. Mrs Henderson and family feel for you every good wish & desire to be affectionately remembered Adieu my dear children Adieu. Your sincere & affectionate friend Robt Henderson The preceding text is a continuation of the third page of the letter.

Page 2

Murfreesborough 21 Jan. 1821 My dear young friend, Your letter of Dec. 20 is before me. The reception of this letter was extremely grateful to me as it related the circumstances of the death & last Christian exercises of your excellent father. A subject on which I was quite anxious but had not been gratified before the reception of the letter now before me. The Knoxville Register gave the melancholy account of his death in a few days after it happened. I was very anxious to hear particularly concerning his last exercises but all the account I could receive was this good one that he died as he had lived on humble extent . Well my dear sir may you compare the friendship of Colo Ramsey and myself to that of David and Jonathan for I think I may say with some truth & propriety that neither of those valuable men loved the other better than I loved your worthy father, unless his capacity of affection was greater than mine. Nor have I the smallest doubt that this affection was fully reciprocated. Ours sir was a long & tried affection which existed with ardor & without one moments abatement, upward of thirty years. No chills, no Jealousies, no distrust ever checked it in one solitary instance. And now that he is gone to receive that glittering crown for which his labours were so assiduous, he has not left behind him the man on Earth so thoroughly & completely the friend of my affections & heart. Though thank God there are many men whom I still love affectionately and I hope about as much as my duty calls for; but none in so high a degree as the dear departed friend of whom I write. These sir are the undisguised feelings of a man who disdains flattery either to the living or the dead. & whom I presume the tongue of calumny itself has never

Page 3

charged with that base and ignoble thing. I loved your father for his virtues. I reciprocated all his glowing friendship as I ought to have done. but & I am acquainted with myself his personal attentions to and friendship for me was so far from being the only reason of my love for him that it was by no means the leading motive This was his many virtues & the excellence of his character. For sir it is a principal with me to love excellence and virtue wherever I see them and that in proportions to their quantity. With regard to the request of your brothers, your sister and yourself, with respect to a sermon on occasion of your fathers death it will give me a mournful pleasure to comply with it should opportunity eve occur which I think is a good deal uncertain as to preaching it in that Country, my health having not been good since past Oct. I aught to visit that end of the state during the ensuing spring or summer, as I am subpoenad to give testimony in a certain land trial in Jefferson County in which it appears justice will no be done with my testimony. Should my health admit I think it probable I shall be in during ing the month of April. & should I come your request ( Deo volende ) shall be complied with. I think with you that the example of your father aught to be held forth to the imitation of others. And notwithstanding my dear young friends might get better hands to do this nearer home, yet since it their desire I should do it I will compy if opportunity serves . And should I not visit that Country in the course of a few months if it would be your desire that such a sermon should go to the Word I shall preach it in Murfreesborough and send you the Manuscript copy.

Page 4

Please, sir signify your wish on this subject as soon as convenient that in the event I cannot go to east Tennessee I may know how to proceed; though I should greatly prefer preach the sermon in the lands where your father used to worship & where he was best known. Dear young friends how we have sympathesied with you in your distress and lamented your incomparable loss. Great was your loss in being deprived, when since children of so respectable enlightened & pious a mother & one so happily calculated to have assisted in forming your young minds to virtue & moral goodness. but still while you were under the tuition of so good & careful a father assisted by so pious, gentle, & affectionate a mother as you found in the amiable Mrs Fleming Your case was not so bad. But now that precious father the Guide of your youth is gone. One consolation however attends your ineffable loss, you are all old enough to record on the tablets of your hearts the virtues, the distinguished virtues of so good a father, I hope you will copy his bright example through life, and hear him though dead still speaking. Children of my crased friend I feel for you all, but dear Eliza most for you. O my dear Girl what a loss is yours. Can you my beloved young friend, image of the friends I once so dearly loved can you with any confidence make the language of the Psalmist your own oo When my father & mother forsake me the Sand will take me up,, O my dear girl make the Lord your friend, by faith by peity & prayer, he is the precious friend of all the pious. I think he was your mothers friend I think he was your fathers friend & O Eliza how

