Page 1

Madison July 31st 1878. My Dear Dr. Ramsey -- It is too long since I have heard from you, that I must try to rouse you up. How comes on your History -- & your Hist. Society? And last, not least, your health? I am plodding as usual -- gathering spurfeeting, in these hard times when publishers are so shy to undertake any thing unless the author will make sufficient pecuniary advances to indemnify them against loss. If profits shd. arise, they are quite ready to take them. But at last a young Cini. pubr. has consented to issue my Mecklenburg -- probably not till next spring. I must look it over & make a few corrections, & additions. I secured a publisher to take hold of my border forays -- but that has since

Page 2

become paralyzed -- & I know not whether he will recover sufficiently to go on with the work. As the contract is in writing, I am not at liberty to seek a new publisher. For the last year I have been mostly employed in gathering matter for a biography on Braul, the Mohawk Chief -- & have been very successful. Stone's work, written 40 years ago, is full of Enor, -- since his day much new matter has been brought to light. On pp. 270-73, of yr. Annals, reference is made to Cherokee troubles in the Fall of 1782 -- of an intention on Gov. Martin's part to hold a treaty with them. (& the Chickamauga -- as I learn from an unpublished doc -- of instructions to com., but without date) Was such a treaty held? In the instructions if is influential, that the Chickamauga still had their Colony -- & shd. be made to return to the main nation. How is this? I trust you are in writing condition. May God spare you yet these many years -- as long as you can be useful, & life desirable. Cordially & Truly Yours, Lyman C. Draper If you have Wheeler's N.C. Hist. at hand, you will see, Vol. II, p. 56, reference to the appt. of the cour. not in 1777 as he had it, Gov. Martin was not Gov till 1782 but evidentially in abt. Sept. 1782; & not Gen. John McDowell, as Wheeler has it, but plainly Gen. Chs. McDowell.

