Page 1

If not called for within Ten Days return to Mrs. F.A. Butler, Editor and Agent Woman's Missionary Advocate, Nashville, Tenn. Mrs. M.B. Ramsay, East Main Street, Knoxville, Tenn.

Page 2

Nashville, Tenn Nov 24/85 My dear Mrs Ramsay, Your letter of Nov 14th was duly received, and I assure you it was read with a great deal of pleasure. I thank you very much for the one dollar enclosed, which will help us send abroad the gospel, which we all love, and which has brought light and happiness to so many. I am glad you enjoy reading our Woman's Missionary Advocate and feel that it is a compliment when you include my editorials among the articles that give you pleasure.

Page 3

It is a great pleasure to me when I visit my friend Mrs Hatton at the Capital to look upon the familiar face of your dear noble husband, as it hangs there -, chief among those whose minds and Christian lives are examples never to be forgotten in the Annals of Tennessee. I am proud to know him & think of him as he was, the friend of my father, of my sweet mother, of my grandmother and great grand father & mother. I am glad that you still retain your mental faculties and I pray - as the body fails, the mind and spirit may grow brighter and brighter unto the perfect

Page 4

day. It is a blessed thing to know that the soul is immortal, and that in another world fairer than this -, we may go on in an endless, and ever increasing joy -, growing more and more in the likeness of our Elder Brother, the Beloved Son of God. To give this joy to others who have never heard the gospel is a great privilege, and to me - if I can aid but a little in the work the pleasure cannot be estimated. Our Savour did not regard the amount so much as the spirit which dictated the giving. I thank you very much for your kind, pleasant letter, and shall file it away-, glad that your letter will be saved for many years

Page 5

in the office of the woman's Missionary Advocate. I gave your message to Dr Cunnyngham - & he was glad to hear from you & returns messages of kindness. Mr Butler also desires to be remembered. My children are all in good health. With kind remembrances to your family, I am yours most sincerely Sarah F. Butler

