Page 1

Dr. J.G.M. Ramsey Prest. Tenn. Historical Society Mecklenburg near Knoxville Tenn

Page 2

41 North Vine Street Nashville, Tenn., Aug 12 1880 Dr. J.G.M. Ramsey Prest. Tenn. Historical Society My Dear Sir, Not having been able to leave home last Monday, I spent some time in trying to learn "the name of the Senior Officer of the Tennessee Company who was with the North Carolina Troops at the Cowpens." Simmon's and also Caldwell's Life of Greene give no information. The Life of Greene by Johnston in the Agatheredan Library I have not seen. Mr. Clark the Librarian is absent. The Battle of King's Mountain was fought the 7th of October 1880. The Battle of the Cowpens in January 1881. I find in the "Field Book of the Revolution" some lines from an old song --thus -- "We marched to the Cowpens, Campbell was there, Shelby, Cleveland, and Col. Sevier, Men of remorse , Sir, like lions so bold Like lions undaunted, not to be controlled V." Vo. The time intervening between these battles was so short. The locality so close, that amany of the North Carolina (Tennessee) Troops participated in both battles, of course. It seems to me, if those distinguished men had all participated in the Battle of the Company, the record of their names would be marked in

Page 3

the description of the battle. I have examined without gathering any light Tarleton's Campaigns in America. "The North Carolina Militia" incorporated with which the Tennessee troops won was commanded by Major McDowell and on the day of the battle, the best riflemen of this corps were placed 150 yards in advance of the first line. When I get back home, I shall try to get Johnston's Life of Greene, but I doubt whether the name of the Officer is mentioned. Would it not be sufficient to say 'That the pioneers of Tennessee participated notably in the achievement of the victory" -- or some such declaration. I infer, it is intended to inscribe on the monument the names of the Officers. I shall continue my research and would be glad to hear from you, if convenient on my return home in about a week. In the mean time, would it not be well to make inquiry of Dr. Draper? Very Sincerely Your friend John M. Lea

