Page 1

The following text is a continuation of the fourth page of the letter. Tell your Ma I have thought a thousand times about her kind cautions & that though I intend to engage again in practice I will not ride 15 miles & sleep in a bed where the rain pours upon me as much as if I were out doors - Write me if my patients recovered that I left in bed - & tell the neighbours how do yc - Tell Garrick I will take some of his medicine when I return but if he meets a better chance than me to embrace it. Tell the children I often (always) am thinking of them & will bring them all something home Let me hear what kind of weather you have in Tennessee - Did I leave it in my bell of instructions for the Col. to sell Love's old boat & to have new-false bottom put in the new one? retaining the chain & irons of the old one. I must hurry to the lecture. & may have forgotten something I should have said. Be as happy my dear Peggy as your circumstances will admit - I reciprocate your words & your sentiment. "To hear that you are happy will make me so." Your affectionate husband The preceding text is a continuation of the fourth page of the letter. Free J.G.M. Ramsey P.M. at Mecklenburg Tenn. Mrs. Margaret B.C. Ramsey Mecklenburg near Knoxville Tennessee

Page 2

Charleston S.C. Nov. 26, 1828 8 O'clock - at night My Dear Margaret I am glad to be able to say to you that I have at length arrived at my "ne plus ultra" & that I intend never to be further from you than I now am. I droped a hasty note yesterday to the Col. informing him of my arrival but of nothing else - I then wrote from the Bar-room of the Hotel where the stage stoped but am now sealed in my own room at a private boarding house in Broad-Street I called at Mrs. Fabien's with whom the Col. boarded & whose house he recommended - but her house was full & will be till Saturday - I accordingly have been under the necessity of looking out else-where - At the recommendation of a friend I have stoped with Mrs. Day - of whom I as yet know nothing - she has not many boardees & I know none of them - If I like the place I shall continue if not at the expiration of a week I will go to Mrs. Fabiens. I have a very pleasant room in the 3rd story - joining the street & near enough the water to have the full benefit of the sea-breezes - I have a good fire place - (if there should be any need for fire - for ever since I left Camden the weather appears like our September) - The situation is moreover sufficiently convenient to the Medical College - The Marine Hospital & the Surgery all of which I shall attend during my stay in town. The walk to each of those places is about as long as I would wish it. I am also situated in the centre of several Churches - where I am told I can attend diverse service not only every sabbath but every evening in the year - (Of this more when I have leisure & opportunity to attend some of them) I have learned already from my Land-lady that she is a Baptist & I have formed a good opinion of the old-Lady's religion from what would otherways be a very unimportant incident - A gentleman called in this afternoon to get boarding but on learning that he belonged to the Theatre - or was a play actor she informed him he could not be accomodated. From this I conclude she prefers sober & steady boarders - & I hope she will have no others. I am thus particular my dear in informing you of all the minutiae of my situation that you may not feel uneasy - & think I am up in some garret by myself - secluded from

Page 3

every body - I can it is true be as retired as I wish - but when I have studied as long as a sheet respect to my health will permit I can walk oon Edmonsons warf & see Mr. Couric (who has been very friendly & attentive to me) - a good hearted Mecklenburger - full of enterprise & public spirit & much in the spirit of Internal Improvement - or I can call upon Fleming & Co. Parrish Cornish & Co. Ripley & Co. Boyer &c &c - Merchants & men of business of the first respectability & influence in this place - to whom I have letters & who have all invited me to visit them frequently during my stay in town & from whom I am promised assistance in any manner I may need it - or I could call upon my Professors after Lecture hours & as the same unstable feeling is not indulged here as was by the Professors at Philadelphia towards the students - I mention all these to let you know that I have all the sources of rational enjoyment that a stranger in a strange land can have & that I intend to avail myself of them - but I could not if I would disguise from you the truth of the matter - There is - there can be to a husband & a parent no place like home - So one minute with you around our Mecklenburg fire would with me extinguish all the splendor of this City & To hear the prattle of our beloved children & to see their dear Mother instructing them is an enjoyment that Charleston can not equal. If you let the four first words in the second line of the following verse (from Montgomery I believe) have a figurative meaning embracing in it wife children & friends I adopt it as peculiarly my own. "I love thee next to heaven above "Land of my fathers! Thee I love "And, none thy slanders as they will "With all thy faults I love thee still!" It is true my dear Margaret that when the thoughts of home crowd upon my mind I have scarcely patience or fortitude to remain longer from you but the reflection that my absence may be eventually for the good of my family & the hope of a happy meeting in a few months reconcile me to a seperation from "all that my soul holds dear on earth." Your own sentiment on this subject is so entirely conul & so well & feelingly expressed in your letter that I cannot omit to transcribe it. "With how much pleasure my dear "wife" do I look forward to that time. The thought will cheer me many a day through this winter when otherwise I should be cheerless. Let us look forward to that happy meeting & endeavor to bear the seperation with fortitude." - But I am filling up my paper with these spontaneous feelings of a most affectionate heart & have barely left room to say something about my present determinations. - My principal object in my visit

Page 4

considerably increased. I hope I shall have improved so much in two months from this time as to justify my return to Tennessee. If this should be the case & the winter not be too rigid with you of which you must inform me I will leave this so as to return early in Feby. Or if the winter is mild with you & whether it is or not if you I will be home against the 15th of January. Now if you would rather I would return against that time I beg you not to hesitate in signifying your wish to that effect immediately by letter & I will obey you most cheerfully - I would rather be at home my self that time - I shall improve my self much in my profession - I am much pleased with most of the Professors - I am desiring instruction from an attendance at the Marine Hospital where I see all the wards crowded with the sick & have an opportunity of seeing the practice of the most emminent of the faculty in every form of disease - & also I witness every day in the Surgery all the cases of surgery which occur in the City or are brought to it - this itself is a large field of instruction - The Col. communicates no news to me that have interested my feelings more than the progress of the revival of religion in Knoxville & the additions he mentions as having been made to its numbers. I thank God in my poor manner for it & pray for its extension & continuation - I said something on the subject in a letter written from Alexander - which I hope you received in due time. He mentions also that he had recd. my letter from Statesville but says nothing of one I wrote you from Wilkesboro - The day before - I hope you have since recd. it - I have written you frequently - & having several letters to write next week - time soon to Knoxville perhaps I may not write you till the second week from now - especially as you will hear from the P.M. at Knoxville of my letters being recd. there & of course that I am well - The night watch is crying along the streets 10 Oclock & I must quiet till morning - commending you to the protection of a gracious Providence - who can take care of us together & apart. Thursday morning. Dear wife. If you can recollect any thing you wanted that I have not down in my memorandum either for yourself or the children mention it to me & I will get it for you - I have not had time to look around yet for any thing. Or if there is any thing going on about home concerning which you would like hear from me or have my opinion & advice write me upon it quickly .

