JOURNALThis Diary was kept day by day as I marched or camped or bivouacked, and was written
               at such liesure moments as my duties permitted sometimes in my tent or cabin or
               "shebang", or on the picket line and even on the battlefield when not
               engaged in fighting the enemy.It brings back to memory many things recorded and many others for which there was not
               room for record, but which I can even at this late day read between the lines. It's quaint expressions, grammatical errors, wild prophecies and youthful
               comments are preserved to give as clear as possible the bent of my reflections and
               the unwritten history of those days so pregnant of consequences.This and its companion for 1864, furnished many helpful facts in the preparation of
               my "History of Henry County Commands." It was written in pencil and has
               been traced in ink at the request of my third son John Taliaferro, and is presented
               to him in hope that he will preserve it and that it will afford amusement,
               information and recreation in its perusal.Traced at Tallahassee Fla. in April 1907 while serving my third term as Chaplain of
               the Florida SenateE.H. Rennolds Sr.May 9 1907.Jan 1st 1863The first of the third year of the Revolution finds me between Caney Springs &
               Murfreesboro returning from home where I have been for several weeks, with a wound
               received at Perryville. I found them surrounded by Yankees but doing better than I
               expected. But Gen. Forrest has gone over there and I hope that he will drive them
               away.What a change since this time two years ago, then I was at home enjoying Myself as
               well as I could. Now I am going back to the fatigues exposures and dangers of
               camp.A battle has been expected there for some time and must now be progressing for I have
               listened to the roar of Artillery all day and it is too strong for picket fighting. I
               am anxious to hear the result.Jan. 2ndStopped at night between Eagleville and Murfreesboro and about 40 Miles from the
               latter place. Have been hearing of the battle fought day before yesterday all
               yesterday evening and this morning, but can hear nothing from my old regiment.It has certainly been a bloody affair which makes me anxious to hear from My
               acquaintances. Arrived at M. about 12 o clock and was rejoiced to hear that the fifth
               has suffered but little. None of the Company wounded except Capt. Ballard's
               son.No fighting except between the pickets has occurred since the 31st ult. Went out to
               the wagon train to leave my knapsack but was so tired that I concluded not to go to
               the battlefield till Morning.January 3rdAfter falling back nearly to the town and drawing the enemy out Gen. Bragg assumed
               the offensive. Gen. Hardee drove their right wing back 4 or 5 Miles when the attack
               was made general. They were driven about a Mile along the whole line when they took a
               strong position on a ridge and the fighting ceased. The slaughter has been great.The two armies have been sitting looking at one another for the two last days. The
               fourth & fifth have been temporarily consolidated. Col. Strahl is commanding Col.
               Venable started home to recruit got wet in a rain took a congestive chill and
               died.It commenced raining at daylight and continued through the day. I concluded to help
               cook rations and go with them to the regiment but before night we received orders to
               fall back.Jan 4thStood around the fire last night in the rain until nearly day, when the Division
               passed, stopping only long enough to get their rations. The wagons left early in the
               Night. Some are astonished at this retreat but I have been looking for it.Fell back to within five miles of Shelbyville where we bivouacked for the night. The
               boys say they have spent the last week miserably, fighting one day and lying down the
               rest of the time with the enemy shelling them all the time.Our loss has been about 5,000. That of the enemy at least three times as much. I
               spent last night as miserably as any one I have ever seen. The retreat is being
               conducted in very good style. Better than any other I have ever participated in.Jan 13th (Sunday)Since writing last we have moved two miles from S. on the Tullahoma road and after
               some delay the wagons have been ordered back here from Winchester where they had been
               sent and we have gone regularly into camp again. The proximity of a brick_kiln
               supplied us with bricks to make a chimney which with straw beds, cedar table, etc. we
               begin to think ourselves comfortable again.Drills, Dress Parades roll-calls and all the routine of camp duty returns. Gen.
               Braggs order dated at Winchester the 8th inst. claims a victory at M. praises the
               army says we have only fallen back to a stronger position, to goad the enemy to
               another advance and then to give him another defeat.Jan 14thA rainy day no drilling. Spent it around the fire. Gen. Braggs' official report
               says we took and preserved 31 pieces of artillery 7,000 small arms, 4,000 prisoners,
               and 300 wagons mostly loaded with Commissary Quartermaster, and other stores.The semi-consolidation between this Co. and Capt Trion's gives me a great deal
               of trouble. Last winter we were well established in winter quarters, now we are only
               temporarily stopped here, but I am glad it is no worse.I hear that Vicksburg has been taken, if so, our prospects in the West have received
               a great damper and we will henceforth see hard times compared with what we have
               seen.Jan 15thAnother rainy day, as well as last night was a rainy night. How unpleasant sitting in
               a leaky tent wind and rain blowing in at the door, chimney smoking etc. I am reading
               Dollars & Cents: Poor book! Hardly worth reading, but does to kill time with.I hear that 15,000 yankees are advancing from Murfreesboro I hope it is not so. I
               dont want to leave my good comfortable quarters. It commenced snowing in the evening
               and continued till in the night.All of the regiments with less than 400 men present have been temporarily consd. The
               31st & 33rd in this Brigade form one. The 24th has been recruited. The 19th an
               East Tenn. regiment has been placed in the Brigade.Jan 20thI have finished reading "Dollars & Cents," and find it better than I
               expected. I shall commence "The Mysteries of Udolpho" next. McGuire &
               Alexander have left for home, I suppose. Vicksburg is not yet taken. The enemys
               attack has been repulsed.Have received a letter from Alonzo Pillow. Have not heard from him since he was taken
               prisoner except through others. He is a Lieut. I have answered it. Weather still bad,
               and nothing of interest transpiring in camp.We were ordered to move nearer wood. But the order was countermanded, on account of
               our chimneys. We can get papers daily now from Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta,
               Montgomery and Mobile. No news of importance in the late ones.Jan. 25th (Sunday)The recruiting officers of the 46th are arriving daily. Have had to leave Henry &
               Humphries to get rid of the yankees, since Forrest has returned from his raid. None
               of them bring me any news from home.The taking of Galveston by Gen. Magruder is a brilliant affair. Have just read full
               particulars, though it occurred New Year's day. A Texas regiment which was
               dismounted at Corinth last spring has just been remounted.We were to have been mustered yesterday but the rain prevented. Inspection omitted
               this morning. Five of our old Co. have left for parts unknown in a week past. A few
               more and there will be none left.Weather tolerably good. No drilling going on. Have nothing to do but cook, eat, sleep
               and read papers.Jan. 26thWe were mustered this morning, by a lieutenant of the fourth. Distinct murmurings
               begin to be heard in the North at Lincoln's proclamation, if we can believe any
               thing we see in the papers.The Alabama has destroyed the Federal Iron-Clad Hatteras. Morgan's Cavalry has
               made a dash into Murfreesboro, capturing 150 prisoners and 20 wagons. Everything is
               quiet in front.I wrote home by Ben Duprees this morning xxx. I hope it will go safe for they have
               not heard from me since the battle, and the yankee papers represent us as cut all to
               pieces.Jan. 27thLieuts. Hendricks & Foster of the 46th arrived from Henry, but bring me neither
               news or letters from home, though I expected both by the former. An order was read this evening from A. & I. Gs. office giving each Co. the right
               to select one of their number who acted most bravely in battle to recieve a badge of
               honor from the President. Our Co. gives it to W. F. Ballard for the battle of
               Murfreesboro, Well bestowed, I think. Co. A gives it to W. F. Diggs. Co. B. to J. A.
               Aguilar. Co. E. to W. A. Thompson, Co. I. to J. W. Caston.Jan. 28thGen. Polk arrived last night from Tullahoma. Gen. Wheeler has taken more boats on the
               Cumberland. He has been promoted to Major General and is Chief of Cavalry here. Gen.
               Pillow is appointed to get out the Conscripts.Jan. 29thGen. Johnston is at Tullahoma. The last of the Recruiting officers of the 46th have
               returned and bring me no letters. Ples. Hope says he saw pa and that he said all were
               well and promised to write, but failed to do so.The weather which has been cold for a day or two has moderated today.Feb 1st 1863. (Sunday)Recieved orders in the evening to cook one day's rations to go on picket in the
               morning. Vallandigham's speech in the Yankee Congress speaks much in some
               respects but still he is mistaken when he talks of peace in connection with reunion.
               That can never be.Feb. 2ndRecieved orders before day light to carry a tent for every 10 men and cooking
               utensils in proportion. The whole Brigade ( which now consists of 4th & 5th Tenn
               19th, 24th, 31st & 33rd Tenn and 45th Ala. ) was started at sunup and went 4 1/2
               miles from town on the Murfreesboro pike. Gen. Stewart is absent. Col. Strahl is
               commanding the brigade. Pitched camp in a little woods lot surrounded by fields.Feb 3rdAs no one is allowed to leave camp, I spent the day around the fire reading papers
               and Life & Times of Leo X which I am interested in. Arkansas Post on the Arkansas
               River has fallen with 4 or 5 000 men - Mismanagement again. Blockade has been opened
               at Charleston by Com. Ingraham with two little gunboats (Iron-Clad), bold feat!Gen. Grant is preparing for a grand attack on Vicksburg. I tremble for the result.
               The murmurings in the northwest has inspired some of the people with hopes of an
               early peace.The 19th Tenn has been sent 4 miles further on the pike. We will stay here some
               time.Feb 4thGen. Pryor fought a battle near Suffolk Va on the 1st inst. which lasted three hours
               resulting in the repulse of the enemy. Gen. Stewart has returned and was in town
               yesterday. He is not in good health or he would be with us. He may always be found at
               his post, when he is well, and he is seldom otherwise.Richardson's speech in the Yankee House is a bold attack on Lincoln's
               policy, which he condemns in strong terms. A new era is dawning in the North. Men are
               gatting bold enough to express their sentiments. It will be productive of good to the
               South.Persons just from Henry represent everything quiet there at this time. No news from
               home.Feb. 5thThe battle in Virginia is confirmed. No news from Vicksburg. The 31st & 33rd were
               in line of battle between the 9th & 10th mileposts to day but returned without
               seeing the enemy.A paper in Philadelphia has been suppressed for expressing its opinion on
               Lincoln's policy. It created great excitement in the North. The weather is very
               changeable, raining, snowing, sleeting, etc., alternately.Some of our recruiting officers have returned without accomplishing anything. Not
               getting to their field of labor hardly. Drew no beef to day and have nothing to eat
               but cornbread.Frank McGuire was taken up and remitted to the guard-house where the Adjutant of the
               4th found him yesterday. He is now under guard at the camp and charges have been
               preferred against him.Feb. 6thLast night was the coldest of the season. Slept but little on account of it. A letter
               from Tandy Morris to Tom B. says he is about well and will soon be back.Feb. 7thx Moved camp soon after sunup to the 9th milepost. The
                  following text is written up the left margin of the page. (x Known later as
               Guy's Gap) The preceding text is written up the left
                  margin of the page. Went with the 19th to check a threatened attempt of the
               enemy to advance but they gave it over, and we returned late to camp, hungry, having
               eaten nothing since morning. Our picket line is at the far edge of a cedar woods,
               near the 15th mile post and the enemy will have to advance a mile or two through open
               fields to reach them.A man in Co. F is said to have the smallpox in camp and I (with many others) were
               vaccinated yesterday. The 31st & 33rd has moved out near us also.Feb 8th (Sunday)The Rebel Banner of yesterday says Gen. Rosecrans is dead but does not vouch for its
               truth. Gen Hooker has actually superseded Burnside. Gen. Stewart has taken command of
               the brigade and Col. Strahl of the regiment.A lady just from West Tenn. says there are no Yankees there except at Union City.
               They have gone to re-enforce Grant at Vicksburg.Col. Strahl's orders this evening are very strict. Roll-calls at 6 & 8 A.M.
               12M and 8 P.M. Dress Parade at 4 P.M. Turn out at roll-calls with guns &
               accourtements. He says being on outpost duty requires that we shall be here at all
               times, and hence his strictness.Feb. 9thGen Wheeler has attacked Fort Donelson taking 100 prisoners and other things but was
               compelled to retire. Gen. Johnston is here and reviewing some of the troops. We were
               paid off to day in smaller notes than ever before. Money is plenty for the time being
               at least. Are now paid to 1st Jan. The bills are nicer than any we have recieved
               heretoforeFeb 10thCol. Swor who was hurt by a fall from his horse at Murfreesboro is getting well and
               is in camp this morning. Two other cases said to be smallpox are reported in the
               regiment.The weather is pleasant and we pass some pleasant hours around the camp fire after
               supper talking of the past and speculating on the future.Feb 11thWent foraging with Dock. Newport about 3 miles to Mr. Nash's where I staid a
               night going home last Nov. Obtained a good dinner and two chickens on the way back.
               Two nice young men from the 8th Ark. were there. Wharton's Cavalry have drained
               the country or we could have done better. Passed a pleasant hour with the girls. I
               felt relieved to get where camp restraints were entirely removed.Only one brigade (Lyddell's) of Cleburne's Division is stationed at
               Wartrace. Our rations now consist only of meal & Bacon, and very short of them. I long to get back to camp again. The 45th Ala has been sent to some other Brigade.
               This place is called Guy's Gap.Feb 18thThe last few days have been exceedingly dull no news scarcely, rainy weather,
               continual roll-calls etc. We occupy the muddiest position I ever saw.The news from the Northwest still savors of disaffection deep disaffection. We are
               fortifying at Tullahoma it is said.Jim Kennerly has arrived He was wounded and taken at Perryville. Says Phillip
               Kennerly started to Vicksburg before he did. Says the ladies of Harrodsburg Ky
               treated all the wounded with great kindness.If the men are enslaved the noble women of the South still remain true and steadfast,
               in their country's cause. I hope the day will soon come when the men of Kentucky
               can act with equal boldness.Feb. 22nd (Sunday)Went foraging with Lieut W.E. Harris yesterday. Took dinner at Mr. Gannaway's a
               nice place. It commenced raining about noon and continued until night, preventing our
               getting back to camp. Stopped over night at Mr Nash's, who seemed glad to see me
               again and to find me well of my wound.Plodded a muddy road back to camp this morning. Had little luck foraging. The enemy
               shelled our pickets from Rover on the 19th but they returned next day.Cannonading is heard in the direction of Murfreesboro this evening late. The weather
               changed, turning colder yesterday evening and is unpleasant this evening. Col. Strahl
               is absent on furlough.Feb. 26thGen. Stewart thinks the cannonading towards Murfreesboro was the yankees celebrating
               Washington's birthday. The nightly plundering of a few on the chicken-roosts of
               the neighbors has caused guards to be placed around the Regt. It is a pity that so
               many have to suffer for the faults of the few.It has been raining almost incessantly since yesterday morning. Sitting in a tent
               full of holes without a fire is not the most pleasant occupation I know of.Gen. Beauregard has ordered all non-combatants out of Charleston & Savannah, and
               Gov. Bonham of S.C. has called out a Brigade of militia. An early attack is
               expected.March 4thThe Queen of the West taken by our batteries on Red River a few days ago has been
               repaired and has taken the Ram Indianola on the Mississippi near Joe Davis'
               farm.Gen. Stewart is said to be promoted to Major General. Gen. Longstreet's Corps
               has been sent towards Norfolk. Esq. Green has just arrived from home and brings many
               letters but none for me. I write home by him x x x. We have sent off all our extra
               baggage to the rear and I fear that we will soon follow.Lincoln's term is half out today, and I rejoice that it is. The Republican
               Congress expires also and that augurs well. When the Democratic one comes in I
               anticipate different times.March 7thWhile sitting in my tent amusing myself with "Solitaire" the Adjutant
               entered and threw me two letters one from home and the other from Mr Kennerly. Though
               dated more than a month ago I devoured the contents quickly. Lieut Jno. Simmounds
               brought them. No news of importance. The yankees fleet made an attack on Genesis
               Point (near Savannah) on the 3rd with but little effect.The Yankee Congress passed a Conscription Bill before it became defunct. It has two
               weak points, one not retaining troops in the service whose time expires soon and the
               other allowing any one to purchase his discharge with three hundred dollars.A skirmish occurred between pickets yesterday at Middleton.March 8th (Sunday)Our men were driven back in the skirmish at Middleton but the yankees retired again.
               Cannonading is again heard in that direction this morning. Rain! Rain!! seems to be
               the programme of the weather now. It does little else day or night but pour down. The
               weather today though is Spring-like.Chaplain Hearn, who has been absent on furlough for some time preached in the
               evening. Text. "Prepare to meet thy God Oh Israel". A plain sensible,
               practical sermon. Had a large and attentive audience.Gen. Van Dorn had a fight at Thompson Station on the 5th, capturing 2500
               prisoners.March 11thMr Asa Cox arrived yesterday and brought me a letter from home x x x x x. He and his
               son Meshec are on their way to his command in Miss. He says things are tolerably
               quiet in Henry.The Secesh are getting bolder. Tom Browning and myself spent last night in the
               country which was more pleasant than in a wet leaky tent What a luxury, a feather-bed
               and fireplace is. Cannonading was heard in front this morning and two prisoners
               passed who were taken in a skirmish.March 14thMoved to a better situation near wood and less muddy. It is the prettiest camp we
               have ever had. Situated near the foot of a small mountain, on the right, small field
               and further a cedar grove and then the pike, in front, a beautiful field on the left
               nice woods, with a clear rippling brook, with springs in the rear.Capt, Irion's resignation has been accepted and he starts home this morning. His
               parting with his Co. was lively & affectionate. He carries a full mail home. One
               for me home x x x x.The weather is beautiful and spring-like. Gen Polk's orders relative to
               plundering, (which has become too general) are very strict, and penalties severe.
               (Should be more so.)March 15th (Sunday)Col. Strahl is absent at Richmond. It is probable he will be promoted. Lieut Col.
               A.J. Keller has returned and taken command of the regiment. He does not look well.
               From what I have seen of him, I think I will like him.Had "Inspection" this morning by him. Lieut Peeples preached from 1 John
               5 chapt and 14th verse. The Chaplain added a few remarks. I had rather hear him than
               the Lieut. There is more life in it. He has opened a subscription with the officers
               to send for "The Soldiers Friend" for distribution to the soldiers of the
               two regiments (4th & 5th).Col Strahl is commanding the Brigade & Gen Stewart McCown's Division.March 16thDrilling recommenced today, only Co. though yet. Col. Strahl has returned and is
               commanding the brigade. Col. Walker of the 19th being relieved.The Yankees surrounded Van Dorn lately, but he made his escape by crossing the Duck
               River. A courier has been captured between Columbia & Franklin bearing dispatches
               to Gen. McCook from Rosencrans to attack Columbia immediately.Most everybody and everything was moved out from the "Old Camp" today.
               Only a few remain. The weather is beautiful indeed and if we could feel happy away
               from home and in the army it certainly would be now.E.H. Rennolds.March 19thThe first Battalion Drill of the season was went through with this morning and though
               out of practice we had not entirely forgotten Hardee. It was short and well done.
               Wise Laurie who came out this morning, says that from 80 to 100 sick are sent off
               daily from Polks Corps. but the number returning daily is much greater.An attack upon Port Hudson has been repulsed, one gunboat sunk and one captured, no
               loss on our side.Capt Kendall mustered the 4th for pay yesterday. Muster-Rolls cannot be gotten for
               the 5th accounts for ours being delayed since the 27th ult when it was ordered.March 21stWe were mustered yesterday evening, by Lieut Sannover of the 4th. Dr. Milam left for
               Henry this morning. Wrote home by him x x x.Many a pleasant hour this fine weather is spent by the boys in playing Ball,
               Prisoner's Base etc., which otherwise would hang heavily on the mind.I hear Gen Morgan left Sparta this morning to make the circuit of Rosecranz. The
               lines in front were pressed to day to make a diversion in his favor, while he goes
               round by Lavergne. The intention is to find out whether Gen. R. is falling back or
               not. Everything was moved out from the old camp today, and we have gone regularly
               into camp here.March 22nd (Sunday)Inspection at 9. The Chaplain preached in the woods near the 31st at 11. It ia a
               beautiful grassy spot. It was the best sermon I have heard since I came into the
               service. Several nice looking ladies from the surrounding country graced the
               occasion, and as I looked at them and the many men present seated on seats prepared
               for the occasion, it reminded me of old times, and better ones.In fact we are doing better now than we have since we left Columbus. Well fed,
               well-clothed, camped in a nice place, not crowded together camps. In a good foraging
               country. No fighting and but little drilling to do. May it last.March 23rdGen. Braggs order read this evening dated March 17th, says no regiments are to be
               consolidated permanently nor any officer or soldier lose his position on account of
               temporary union. Another relative to Ordnance stores is very strict. No news from
               Morgan yet.An accident happened to Geo. Wynns a day or two ago which I deeply regret. While
               playing ball a paddle slipped from Bill Edmond's hand striking his nose and
               breaking it. It will always disfigure him, which is a great pity, for he is a good
               and intelligent youth.Mr Wilson from Obion Co. says there are no yankees at Union City and but 50 or 60 at
               Hickman No cars are running on the Mobile & Ohio R.R. The work done on it by the
               government proves of little service being badly done.March 24thThe fine weather of the last few days was dispelled by clouds and rain this morning
               and through out it was a disagreeable day. Rumor says Morgan has been badly whipped
               at Lebanon. It is not reliable. I hope it will prove false.Another rumor says the government will not recieve any more troops under any
               circumstances. But how unreasonable! Who can believe itWe have divided our mess within the last few days. Hendricks, Wilson, Cox, Pillow and
               myself forming one. We have plenty of room now which is much more pleasant than to be
               crowded.The armies everywhere are remarkably quiet just now, and have been for some time. The
               storm will be the fiercer when it does burst.March 25thSpring advances. The fields begin to look green, and the woods will soon, as they are
               budding fast. It is clear, cloudy, rainy, snowy, etc. by turns this morning.Several persons making regular trips from West Tenn. are due. I wish they would come.
               Pay-Rolls have arrived for the 4th, and I think we will be paid again soon. An attack
               made by the yankees several days ago has been repulsed at Fort Pemberton on the Yazoo
               River.March 26thDrilling has been resumed, Battalion this morning, Company this evening.Jim Douglass arrived from Henry this evening. He says the yankees have burned and
               evacuated Ft. Heiman. There are none now nearer than Clinton Ky.Dick Curd & Capt. Bowman are on the way, and will bring a full mail. I hope I may
               recieve a letter from home.March 27th"Thanksgiving Day." It was observed by relief from every duty except the
               necessary police. Chaplain Hearn delivered an address suitable to the occasion which
               was excellent, so far as it proceeded, but a rain coming up stopped it in the midst.
               Several ladies were present. Their treble voices, as they mingled in the singing
               reminded me of home and other days.Capt. Cooper and Lieut Milam arrived this evening. They were wounded at Perryville
               and have been confined in Forts McHenry and Delaware. They say they were treated
               kindly by the ladies of Baltimore while at Fort M. They confirm the growing discontent in the north, many declare they will not submit
               to the Conscription Act. They are both nearly well of their wounds. Morgan met a
               reverse at instead of a defeat at Lebanon.March 28thCapt. Bowman has got in. He brings me a letter from home, which contains little new.
               It says Dugger's widow and Jim Hancock have been married also Dr. Bradley and
               Miss Nannie Ryan.The Yankees are fortifying some at Mayfield and Clinton Kentucky. Esq. Green arrived
               late in the evening with many letters but unlucky none for me. He reports the
               surrounding and capture of a man just ahead of him one day (who had a full mail,) by
               some negroes. It is supposed to be "Gibson" of Weakley Co. who has been
               making regular trips for some time.Several hundred Yankee prisoners are said to be in town who were taken near Nashville
               by our Cavalry. The Yankees have burned and evacuated Fts. Heiman and Henry.March 29th (Sunday)What a cold, windy, blustery day a real March one. The Rev. McCutchen Chaplain of the
               24th Tenn. preached for us, but it was too unpleasant for me to attend. A Testament
               Class was organized this evening. Lieut Peeples was chosen leader it contains 25 or
               30 members.Another attack upon Lt. Pemberton has been repulsed. It is said Gen Joe Johnston now
               commands this army in person. The Court House in Shelbyville has been burned down by
               accident.Phillip Kennerly has written to his father that he is confined at Camp Douglass has
               the dyspepsia and can get no diet that suits him. His father has started to see him.
               The Captain promises to write to Col. Ould, Exchange Commissioner at Richmond and
               have him exchanged as he was taken pryor to the 10th of December last.March 31stThe last three days savors of winter more than spring, but drilling has not been
               stopped. Col. Johnston of Pres Davis Staff reviewed the army at Shelbyville
               yesterday. Gov. Harris was in camp today, and says the army is nearly twice as strong as it was
               at the battle of Murfreesboro. He talks of an early peace and the probability of Gen.
               Polks Corps being sent to West Tenn. Both of the latter I think doubtful or
               impossible. The last together with something of a similar kind coming from Gen.
               Cheatham has produced much speculation in camp, and raised the hopes of some to a
               high pitch.Lieut Elliot not undergoing a good examination before the Board has been ordered to
               report to the camp of Direction at Chattanooga to await the decision of the President
               in reference to his case.April 2ndCapt. Cooper & Lieut Milam have authority from the Secretary of War to raise a
               Co. of Cavalry, but they go to Atlanta today to await a more propitious moment to go
               to West Tenn. Col. Swor & Lieut Milliken have gone there to recruit.Lieut Harris & myself were summoned to town this morning as witnesses in
               McGuire's trial but when we arrived there another case had been called up, and
               we were told to call round another day. Not wishing to walk back 9 miles to camp we
               went out to Lieut Harris' "Farmyard".The Artillery of Withers' Division was on review and presented a beautiful
               sight. The camps of that Division with all the trees cut down around and compressed
               by a Brigade Guard looked dull compared with our own lively camp.April 6thI was awakened not as a year ago by the booming of cannon but by the sunlight passing
               in at a window into a pleasant bed-room. Since writing last we have been seeing a
               fine time at Mrs Dixon's, Mr Davis and Mr. Dunaway's. Hunting, fishing,
               eating and sleeping. But it must end.Went back to town where we found that McGuire's case had been tried on
               Adam's evidence some time ago, and the verdict forwarded to Gen. Polk for
               approval or rejection. Spent half an hour with Laurie, walked out to the ordinance
               train took dinner with Pete Kendall mounted a wagon and went on to camp.Verdict of McGuire's trial has been approved by Gen Polk and read on Dress
               Parade here on the 3rd. He is to wear a 20 pound ball attached to his leg by a chain
               for 10 days.April 7thBrigade Drill recommenced yesterday. It will be evry Monday and Wednesday, hereafter.
               Mike Terry and Goodloe of the 4th are under guard for cutting up extensively in the
               country. Gen. Pegram has been repulsed near Somerset Ky lately.April 9thSeveral persons have just arrived from Henry Co. but bring no news of importance. One
               of them brings me a letter also void of news. Marrying seems to be the order of the
               day there. Drilling here, Brigade, Battalion, Company & skirmish intermingled
               promiscuously and almost without ceasing.Bill Duff died on the 3rd inst. at Atlanta. A fine good natured and generous boy, a
               dutiful, faithful and patriotic soldier, without an enemy but loved by all he is
               deeply deplored.April 10thWrote home by messrs Poe & Wright this morning. Have been on Brigade drill for
               the last three days in succession, having to walk a mile on the pike and drill two
               hours. Col. Strahl is overdoing the thing. Gen. Cheatham's order only required
               it twice a week.April 11thLieut Copeland has arrived from the North. He was wounded and taken prisoner at
               Perryville.The ball has at length opened at Charleston. Several "Iron Clads" made
               the attack on the 7th and continued to shell some time making but little effect. One
               of their "Iron-Clads" was disabled (the Keokuk). The Great "Ironsides", also recieved some injury. We will have stirring news soon.April 12th (Sunday)What a beautiful Sabbath - How I wish I could attend church at old "High Hill" this morning. Instead "Inspection" at 9. Preaching by Parson
               Miller a citizen at 11. He is a reasoning man, and preached a very applicable sermon.
               Subject - "Mary hath chosen the good part." Several ladies graced the
               occasion. Seats have been fixed up in front of the encampment, near the "regimental Parade Ground." A nice place when the sun is not too hot.The testament class recited 5th & 6th Chapters of Matthew in the evening, which
               was made very interesting by the examination.Lieut Wilson arrived from the North this evening. He brings no news of importance.
               Jim Pillow preached at night to a large crowd.April 13thTwo years ago today the first cannon boomed in the war, and Anderson at Fort Sumter
               instead of recieving the intended reinforcements sent by Lincoln was forced to haul
               down the hated Stars & Stripes. Today sees them attempting to restore them but to
               no avail.The weather this morning is cool and the Brigade Drill therefore not so unpleasant.
               No papers today. I am anxious to hear from Charleston.A Brigade Board of Examiners are examining all officers who are entitled to
               promotion. Col. Tansell is President, Capt. Kendall is also one of the Board. Col.
               Wilson completes the Board. A very good one. The examinations I predict will not be
               as they were at Corinth last spring - a humbug.April 14thYoung Diggs left for home this morning carrying many letters, one to Pa from me. The
               Artillery was reviewed by Gen. Bragg (and I think Gen Johnston) today and the
               Infantry of Gen Polks Corps are to be tomorrow.It rained in the evening. Every thing begins to wear the freshness and greenness of
               Spring.April 15thOrders were recieved early in the morning for everything to be put in order about the
               camp as Gen. Bragg was to review the brigade in the evening, and inspect the camp,
               but it was a half - rainy half - showery day, and he did not make his appearance. No
               papers yet. I havent seen one for several days. Soldiers continue to arrive from
               Northern prisons.April 16thBattalion drill this morning and a muddy drill it was. The afternoon was fine and I
               suppose that Gen. Bragg got through with his review.The enemy has drawn off from Charleston, and given up the attack for the present at
               least. They have found it harder than expected.Grant is said to be removing his army to Nashville to reenforce Rosecrans. Various
               parties from Henry County say the Yankees are pressing the negroes there to
               re-fortify Fort Heiman and forcing the Masters to furnish 6 days rations. Their evil
               day has come at last. The wonder is that it did not come sooner.April 17thThe Brigade was reviewed by Gen's Polk, Cheatham, and Stewart. If the novelty
               had not so long ago worn off I should pronounce it a beautiful sight. It was better
               performed than I ever saw it before. It was not large enough to be called a grand
               sight. The battery participated.After it was over, we were drilled by Col. Strahl in the presence of the Generals.
               Several mistakes made by excited officers almost if not quite spoiled it all. Gen.
               Bragg did not appear. Many ladies were present.The camp was prepared for Inspection, but it did not come off. Gen. Blagg's
               orders of Aug 8th/62 are republished reducing tents to 6 flies to 100 men and also
               for the army to be prepared for active operations in the field. Look out!April 18thAttended Prayer-meeting last night but the fatigues of the day rendered me too tired
               and sleepy to remain until it was over. Tis Saturday, we have no drilling to do. It
               is wash day.Spent most of the day in the woods with Doc. Newport, reading writing letters
               bringing up my journal inhaling the fresh spring air listening to the sweet songs of
               birds, reflecting over the past, and speculating on the future. The woods have
               greatly changed since last Saturday when I was similarly employed. Then they were
               little more than budding, now they are green with foilage.One year ago tday, I was consigning to the cold earth the last remains of a loved
               brother, at that most miserable of all places, Corinth. O! that he was here now to
               enjoy the brightened prospects of his country for which he became a willing
               martyr.Sunday April 19thA cloudy morning succeeds a stormy night. The regular routine of Guard mounting
               inspection and Preaching was attended to. Lieut Peeples preached making the best out
               I ever heard him make. The Chaplain added nothing but an uncalled for rebuke to those
               who did not attend, but did not remain perfectly quiet during service. He used
               language which I consider unbecoming a political speaker, still more so a minister.
               All who I have heard speak of it condemn it.The unpromising weather did not prevent ladies from attending, but the evening rain
               compelled the Bible Class to recite in a tent. Prayer meeting at night. followed by a
               call for those who wished to be prayed for resulting in about 15 or 20 going forward.
               I did not attend. The seats have been covered by a cedar arbor.Tuesday April 21st.Several orders were read yesterday evening. One relative to practicing shooting at a
               target which will prove beneficial if carried out. One from Gen. Bragg says that
               regiments which number over 400 men present for duty shall be released from the
               consolidation and all their officers returned to duty.An Inspection was held this morning by order of Col. Strahl and everything charged to
               the men or to the officer who has failed to have them charged. They are awful
               particular about the ordnance now.Prayer meeting last night was warmer than the night before. Went foraging with Doc.
               Newport after Inspection, getting some milk for Wilson who is sick. The enemy are
               said to be advancing on the pike, and orders are issued this evening for no one to
               leave camp.April 22ndThe protracted meeting has assumed the form of a revival. One profession last night
               and several others seem concerned. Esq. Green arrived from Port Hudson yesterday and
               leaves for home this morning. Wrote to Ma by him.All so quiet this morning on the pike. Coleman & Dinwiddie of Co. "F"
               have arrived from Camp Morton. They report that many still declare themselves opposed
               to submitting to the draft.Went out to the Brigade Drill-ground this morning to arrange the guns of the Brigade,
               the 19th was armed with the good muskets, the 24th, 31st & 33rd with Enfields the
               4th with Springfields and the 5th had to submit to the shame of taking the refuse
               muskets of the Brigade. Col. Strahl will be recollected for it.April 23rdThe regt (5th) is still murmuring loudly over the disgraceful treatment recieved
               yesterday, and blessing Col. Strahl over the left. It is humiliating to give up the
               good long range guns, we fought so hard to obtain at Shiloh, Perryville &
               Murfreesboro.There were three professions at the meeting last night. O.D. Edwards of Co.
               "A" among the number. I do not know the others.I have been nearly all day since drill, turning over Enfield ammunition, and
               unserviceable muskets drawing Buck & Ball and charging ordnance.April 25thThe revival continues to increase the number of professions was raised last night to
               21. The number of mourners gets larger all the time. Among the professions are Lieut.
               Linderman, Winbush, Polk Alexander, Bevil, Edgar that I know.Troops are being brought from Tullahoma to Wartrace. Several gunboats have succeeded
               in passing Vicksburg, with but little damage. I fear that they will ruin our
               operations between there and Port Hudson.April 26th.We were aroused just after midnight with orders to cook up all the rations on hand
               and be ready to move to the front at 5 o clock this morning. But just as we got the
               rations cooked the order was countermanded and we again laid down to sleep.April 26th. (Sunday)The number of professions was increased last night to 36. Parson Miller preached to
               at least 500 persons, among whom were many ladies and gentlemen from the country. It
               was the most attentive congregation I ever saw anywhere. The Chaplain followed with
               very appropriate remarks.In the evening a Christian Association was organized, consisting of about 50 church
               members. A Sunday School was also organized comprising 4 classes every company in the
               regiment being represented except "B". John R. Peeples is
               Superintendent.All of our tents but 6 to the hundred men, and all but 2 blankets or quilts to the
               man were turned over this evening.April 27th.All (or nearly all) of the new converts were admitted into the "Society"
               last night and many mourners came up without being called for. Parson Butts of
               Stanford's Battery preached a very good sermon from Christs words to Matthew,
               "Follow me" The Brigade Drill was longer than usual this morning - Cause
               - The presence of several ladies, I think.Gen. Bragg has issued an order that one regiment in each Brigade and two companies in
               each regiment shall be thoroughly drilled in Skirmish Drill.One year ago today Pa left Corinth for home and the dark hours of last Spring set
               in.April 28thCapt. Cooper & Lieut Milam left for Henry this morning to raise a company of
               Cavalry. I wrote home by the latter x x x x. The meeting which opened well last night
               was broken up by rain.Polk Peeples has arrived from Henry but brings no letters. He says that the negroes
               taken to Fort Heiman have been returned. Capt. Kendall has gotten a letter from
               Phillip Kennerly stating that he had arrived at Chattanooga and would be detained
               there several days, because the train on which he came had some smallpox on it.The order to cook rations the other night was caused by a signal given by mistake by
               the Signal Corps. It is said to have been ordered over the whole army.May 3rd (Sunday)The meeting still continues. They meet at night sing and pray and remain with the
               mourners till a late hour. The number of professions has increased to 80. Many ladies
               present today. Parson Butts preached. A great change has come over the
               regiment-Gambling and swearing has almost disappeared and a seriousness has settled
               over all. The attendance at Sunday School this evening was larger.The sentance of the Court Martial in Sergt. Aguilar's Jossee Mexican case was
               carried into effect so far as being reprimanded by the Maj. or Lamb at Dress Parade
               (was concerned). He wept like a child and I could not help feeling for him though I
               know he deserved it. He having absented himself from Dress Parade several times.We were mustered by Lieut Sinona on the last day of April.May 4thThe meeting was suspended until Wednesday night, only meeting last night for the
               purpose of admitting the new converts into the Society, but they all got so happy
               that they continued till after Midnight.I recieved a letter from Tandy Morris Saturday. He says nothing about coming
               back.The Brigade Drill this morning was longer & hotter than usual. It may be for our
               good during the Summer campaign by preparing us for it, but it does seem now to be
               useless and uncalled for, volunteers drill better, and learn more to be drilled two
               hours at a time than four.May 5thThe target-shooting commenced yesterday evening, with the first Co. in the 4th. One
               shot at two hundred yards, 2 at 400 and one at 600, with their Springfield Rifles.
               The best shot yet made was by Cullom of Union City, coming within an inch and a
               quarter of the center at 5 hundred yards.The news from Va. this evening says a great battle has been fought between Lee &
               Hooker. I shall pen no particulars until it becomes certain. I hope that they will be
               favorable and I have every reason to hope so.May 6thThe baptizing which was to have come off today has been postponed for want of the
               administrator who did not appear. Parson Hearn's remarks in reference to those
               who come only to ridicule, were unbecoming a minister and entirely uncalled for.Col. Travis has been appointed by the President "Appraiser", under the
               impressment Act. He was in town today.Hooker crossed the Rappahannock and attacked Lee who re-enforced by Hill &
               Longstreet defeated him and drove him back across the river again. It is a glorious
               victory. But Gen. Paxton is killed and Jackson, Hill and Heth wounded. I think the
               victory was mostly gained by Lee's strategy.Gen.Forrest cut off 18 hundred Yankees in Alabama, who advanced upon Rome Ga. When
               near the place the soldiers on guard there and the citizens went out and held them in
               check until Forrest came up who captured the whole crew.Col. Travis came out to the regt. today, was called out and made a speech, which was
               not fiery, but sensible and to the point. Those who condemned him last Spring unheard
               have long since found out their mistake. He says that he had rather command the
               remnant of the 5th than any Brigade in the service and I know we had rather he
               command us than any other man. He has been sick long, but looks well now.Saturday May 9thAbout 40 persons were baptized this morning by Parsons Bennett & Peeples mostly
               by immersion. Those who were poured upon were the first I ever saw by that mode.The Target shooting progresses slowly, on account of the rainy weather of the last
               few days. Our company commenced skirting this evening. Jessee McClure arrived today
               from Henry and says that affairs are growing worse there. The Federals are taking off
               a gread deal of property. Phillip Kennerly arrived today from Chattanooga.The news or rather rumors from Virginia are worse. I fear they will be confirmed. I
               am getting anxious to hear from home very anxious!Gen Van Dorn has been shot at Columbia by Dr. Peters. If reports are true, it is
               justifiable.May 12thThe victory in Virginia has been confirmed without a doubt. 10 thousand prisoners
               captured. Jackson is reported dead.Our company has finished shooting. Sergt. Wynns making the best shot. I had the
               misfortune to miss every shot. The 31st and 33rd regts have been seperated.Col. Swor and Sam Miller have arrived from Henry. They bring me no letters. The Col.
               says he saw Pa. Several young men came our with him but have not arrived here. Miller
               will join our co if any.Stanford's Battery drilled this evening for a prize. It is said to have drilled
               well.May 13thThe report of Gen. Jackson's Death is confirmed. His loss is great indeed. A
               great general an excellent citizen and a pious Christian is gone. But we should not
               lament his death. There are other things for us to do which would be far more
               sensible.The operations of the enemy between Vicksburg and Port Hudson are becoming important.
               Part of McCown's Division is said to have been sent to Vicksburg.The protracted meeting continues but the revival seems to have slacked. Parson Hearn
               referred feelingly to the death of Gen. Jackson at night.We have orders to make out a muster Roll of the company, for the Adjt Gen. of the
               State containing the names of all who have belonged to the Co. and whether in the
               service now or how they got out, to be recorded in a nicely bound book.May 14th 1863.Col. Strahl returns to the regiment but does not take command yet. He is still
               commanding the Brigade Gen. Stewart is relieved from command of McCown's
               Division.No Brigade Drill, the change interfering. Lieut. Staton of Co. I. who took French
               leave last November, was taken prisoner, claimed to be a soldier and sent to prison
               has just arrived from the North. He is willing to go into ranks, he says, and serve
               as a private (I wonder who took the liberty to write those fine words) seeing this I
               do not think he will report it.)The revival continues but not to so great an extent as at first.May 15thThe enemy has cut the railroad south of Jackson Miss. thus cutting off Vicksburg. It
               is rumored that Jackson has fallen.Gen. Lee's letter to Stonewall (J) previous to his death awards him all the
               praise for the victory. What a noble man Lee is! His order in reference to his death,
               contains a high eulogium from the best General in the world. Who would ask more.Gen. Stewart's order this evening says he assumes command of the Brigade. I am
               glad of it. I feel safe when I know he is in command. No one will lose any of his
               rights. Col. Strahl assumes command of the regiment also.May 16thA Muster Roll has just been made out for the Adjt. Gen. of Tenn. Which is to be
               recorded with those of all other Tenn Companies, in a well-bound Book.116 different persons have been members of this Co. 35 are in it yet. 4 have been
               transferred, 3 resigned, 21 discharged, 8 died, 4 killed, 3 died of wounds and 38
               deserted. So 39 are still in the service, 39 have gotten out honorably and 38 have
               deserted. Nearly equally divided at the end of 2 years.Jackson has indeed fallen. Vicksburg and Port Hudson are cut off and unless some
               change will go up. The victory in Va. is complete and the enemy beyond the river.May 17th Gen. Stewart did not do as well on Brigade Drill as expected this morning. He is out
               of practice. Col. Tansell will try his hand on Wednesday and Col. Walker Friday.The 1st Confederate Cavalry passed going to the front this evening. Rumors of the
               enemy's advance are in camp. The Protracted meeting suspended meeting last night
               for awhile.Lieut. Wilson arrived from Henry and brings two recruits with him, but they want to
               go to the 46th. He brings few letters, and none that contain any news of importance
               for me.No news from Jackson yet. All are anxious to hear. Mrs Hancock starts home this
               morning x x x.May 20thTwo years ago we entered the service and two thirds of our time is gone. I wish that
               it were all gone. The enemy has evacuated Jackson and are said to be fighting at
               Edward's Depot, 10 miles beyond.Col. Tansill Drilled the Brigade today doing very well I think.We could at least hear him. Gen. Stewart superintended it. The 31st and 33rd have
               been seperated, but they are so small that they still Drill together. Col. Swor is
               starting for the West again.May 21stWent to town to try and see Lieut. Hart, who has a letter and some socks for me, but
               could not find him. Everything dull in town. No certain news from Miss.The N.Y. World acknowledges almost a defeat on the Rappahannock. The correspondent
               who witnessed the fright of the 11th Corps when attacked by Jackson in the rear
               represents it as frightful. He says the troops fought no more with the right
               spirit.They are still fortifying at the 3rd milepost this side of town. Capt. Bunch they say
               (who drilled the regt. today did better than expected.May 22ndSome of the Cavalry pickets were said to have been surprised last night and today
               guards are placed around the regt. and no one allowed to leave. Several prisoners
               have passed the road.We have news that Grant has been captured. Lieut. Copeland has arrived from Henry and
               says that the Federals have given the men 4 months to enlist or they will conscript
               them. I hope they will carry out the threat.Col. A.J. Keller is well and has taken command of the regt. Col. Strahl is at
               something else. I know not what. No Drill this morning on account of the scare-up. I
               employ my extra time reading two new novels I have recieved from Atlanta.May 23rd 1863.The Hon. J.D.C. Atkins spent last night here and addressed the regiment when called
               out this morning. He was not as lively as I expected him to be. He is very hopeful.
               Spoke hopefully of the prospects for provisions, our ability to clothe ourselves, the
               reduction of the quantity of currency and the certainty of our having a navy building
               abroad. He says the next election for M.C.'s will be by a general State ticket all Tenn.
               Soldiers stationed in Tenn. being allowed to vote. He is a candidate provided he does
               not find out that the soldiers from his District are opposed to him.Everything quiet in front. Two years ago today x x x. I wish I could call it up
               now.May 24th Sunday.The news from Miss. continues to get worse. Grant seems to be gradually closing
               around Vicksburg. I fear for the result... But the Hero of the Seven Pines is there,
               and I have great confidence in him. Should he fail and the Miss. River be opened the
               discontent in the N.W. will be almost hushed.No preaching today almost all went to hear the Rev. McFerrin at the 24th. Our spring
               is failing and we will have to change front soon. The long repose we have had here is
               strange, but it has been productive of good. Many have professed religion, which has
               improved the morals of the army, and we are getting proficient in Drill of every
               kind.May 26thThe dulness of our out post camp life has been broken at last. Vallandigham who has
               been sentenced by a Court-Martial for using offensive language in a speech of the
               Administration, to be sent South until the war is over, arrived at our lines by flag
               of truce this morning and as soon as heard of almost the whole regt. turned out to
               see him pass the road.He came on from Gen. Martin's Hdqrs late in the evening and as the carriage
               which he was in approached, it was compelled to stop for the road was blockaded with
               excited men. The Band struck up "Dixie" and when it stopped, three cheers
               were given for him and a general call was made for a speech but he only replied by
               bows.Col. Johnston ofBragg's staff who was in the carriage, arose and explained his delicate position
               and the unresonableness of expecting a speech. When he sat down some one called out
               "clear the road" which was done and he passed on. He is a better looking
               man than I expected to see and was extreme,ly modest, (which was natural under the
               circumstances) and blushed like a woman.Hon. J.D.C. Atkins who was in the rear with a carriage was stopped and called for who
               paid a compliment to Mr V's principles. Col. Strahl who talked with Mr. V. says
               he is a good Southern Man. (In reference to State Rights, I suppose)This incident broke up the Skirmish Drill entirely. That much good done at least.May 27thOur spring having failed almost entirely we moved to the Brigade Drill Ground between
               the 7th & 8th mile-posts, (and a tolerably nice place) but not such an one as we
               leave. Will have to tote water, nearly a quarter. The news from Vicksburg is better
               and very flattering but I am as yet afraid to record it.May 28thThe Brigade Drill to day longer, hotter and duller than ever. Gen. Stewart seems to
               me to get unreasonable. I see no good to be derived from it. We are learning nothing,
               and as to hardening us we are hard enough now.May 29thCapt. Caldwell Drilled us. He was unlucky. The hard drill yesterday and the want of
               meat rations today made all careless and unattentive. When he commanded "Rest," he was greeted with cries of "Bacon! Bacon!" He was excited and
               embarrassed, or would have done much better. A rain coming up before he got over his
               embarrassment, it was all spoiled.We are fixing up here more than common, building bunks etc. We begin to feel at home
               already. Though 10 of us are in one tent we have plenty of room.May 30thCol. Wilson's Drill. He did tolerably well. Col Tansill tried to drown his voice
               with his stentorian one, which kept our regiment, officers and men all in a titter.
               It was another long one.The news (if it can be called news) is worse. But it seems to be all wrapped up in
               mystery, either intentionally or the opposite.Mr French has arrived from the District with goods bought at Paducah and run through
               the "blockade." This is the second or third trip he has made and brings
               knives handkerchiefs, Combs, thread, needles, etc., to any amount. He is doing us a
               service besides making a fortune for himself.May 31st SundayLaid down to sleep after "Inspection" and did not awake until after
               preaching. Mr. Crawford a citizen preached, (it is said,) one of the best sermons
               delivered to the regiment lately. Instead of going to Sunday School I spent the
               evening writing home x x x. I send them by Capt. Bowman who leaves in the morning.
               Sixteen new men were added to the "Society," and will be baptized
               tomorrow.The guard duty is very heavy now and the instructions very strict, but we have long
               ago learned to elude the vigilance of guards, not for illegal purposes, but for
               recreation, etc., Rebels are a hard class to get ahead of, when once they set their
               heads. Vide: this Revolution.June 2ndCol. Walker drilled us yesterday, which was moderate. Capt. Bowman carried a large
               mail home with him. It has been raining almost incessantly for the last three or four
               days, it stops the everlasting drill, at least.Recieved orders in the evening to remain in camp and wait orders to move and late to
               cook two days rations of meat and send to town for two days rations of hard bread,
               and later to be ready to move at daylight.A thousand and one conjectures already. Some think we will go to Vicksburg, some that
               we will attack Murfreesboro, some that we will make a feint to prevent
               re-enforcements going to Grant, others that we will make a feint while Forrest makes
               the Grand Rounds. etc., etc., etc.June 3rdDaylight found it raining, and we had to postpone movement, but about 8 or 9
               o'clock, with ham and crackers in our Haversacks we started in the direction of
               ----- Murfreesboro. Went out near Fosterville when after a little talking and
               consulting round between Gen's Stewart & Martin, we marched into the woods
               stacked arms placed guards on the color line and sat down for the day.Maney's Brigade is close in the rear similarly situated. Conjecture is the order
               of the day, with us high privates. Are ordered to move at daylight. Near night the
               woods might have been seen full of men gathering leaves to sleep on.No papers and no news from Vicksburg.June 4thMoved at sunup out to a brick Church and formed line of battle with Stewart's
               Brig. under Col. Strahl on the right of the pike and Gen Maney's on the left,
               the whole commanded by Gen. Stewart. Gen. Martin's Cavalry on the pike in the
               extreme front, and wings. The Batteries on the pike so as to move in any direction.
               Skirmishers were thrown out, and the line advanced a mile or more. Occasional
               cannonading heard in front and to the left.Later in the day Gen. Cheatham arrived and took command and Gen. Stewart was ordered
               to report to Gen Hardee as Maj Gen. The Cavalry being driven back on the left near
               Middleton Gen Maney's Brigade was sent to it's assistance, (the Battery in
               double quick) and we were movedby the left flank and the 19th & 24th thrown to the left of the pike, and later
               they were sent towards Middleton and the 31st & 33rd moved across the pike.Late in the evening we commenced moving to the rear in column by Co. by the flank,
               making the fences fly as we went and with one section of the Battery opening at the
               old position, the women and children in the neutral ground became somewhat
               frightened. I pitied them really. We moved back to the foot of a ridge and bivouacked
               in the woods with field in front. Our Battery was not replied to and soon
               retired.One man in the 1st Tenn. Inf. and one in the 8th Confederate Cav. were killed in the
               skirmish near Middleton. They held the ground and the enemy retired to the cover of
               woods and at night to their old positions.June 5thPickets were placed out to the front last night and but for the rain we would have
               slept well. A Day's rations of corn bread arrived about midnight. Were aroused
               at daylight and took the Shelbyville end of the pike and after 2 or 3 hours muddy
               marching we arrived at camp just in time to escape a drenching.Gen. Stewarts farewell order this evening is not affecting, but characteristic of the
               man. He says all the praise for his promotion is due us not him. He hopes that we may
               meet again. All regret deeply that he leaves us, none more than I do.Either Gen. Pillow or Col. Strahl will succeed him. I think he intimates a hope that
               the latter will.June 7th SundayYesterday was spent in resting washing and rubbing the rust off our guns accumulated
               on our trip to the front. Chaplain Hearn left yesterday to visit the Hospital at
               Atlanta & Rome and to purchase books etc. for the regt. The Co donated 40 dollars
               for the latter purpose.Chaplain McCutchen of the 24th preached today. The appointment was for Lt. Col. Read
               and a large crowd was in attendance. Col. R.s duties kept him away. I should like to
               hear him, never having had the pleasure and like the man.Spent the day yesterday in the country. When I returned I found a letter from Uncle
               William and one from Asa Cox. The latter dated May 14th (old). The former later and
               very lengthy, containing a deal of information.June 8thNo Brigade Drill, but the day spent in preparing for Inspection, which came off in
               the evening. The 4th inspected by Maj Lamb and the 5th by Lt. Col. Keller. The latter
               was slow enough to have seen all defects. If he did he kept it to himself.Capt. Hatcher, A.A.G. Capt Stewart Ord Off. and Maj. Lauderdale A.Q.M. are assigned
               to duty on Gen. Stewart's Staff. Maj Cross A.C.S. & Maj. Beard A.Q.M. are
               left with us, (I suppose) Col. Strahl is still in command of the Brigade. No news
               reliable from Vicksburg.A victory has been achieved at Port Hudson if we can believe reports coming in at
               least two different directions. The 46th Tenn. is near Jackson Miss.June 10thThe rest of Cheatham's Division are moving out to the breastworks 3 miles this
               side of town. A man in the 19th Tenn. and also one in the 8th are to be shot on
               Friday 12th inst. for desertion.June 11thLieut Elliott returned from Chattanooga today by order of the Commander of the Post.
               Lieut. Statons trial came off yesterday. No Decision yet, that we have heard of.Today's Rebel says the Yankee Cavalry crossed the Rappahannock on the -- inst
               but were driven back by Stuart. I have just written to Lieut. Pillow, Uncle William
               and Asa Cox and mailed them.June 12thWe were marched out at one o clock to see the deserter of the 19th shot. All the
               formalities of taking leave, praying for him, reading the sentence, preparing the
               grave producing the coffin etc. were gone through with, but just as every one was
               holding his breath expecting to see the preparation to fire, a pardon was read from
               Gen. Polk, and the handcuffs were taken off and he was released. I think this wrong,
               thus to bring a man to the verge of the grave.I think this wrong, thus to bring a man to the verge of the grave. It deceives no one
               or no one expected him to be shot and they think now that no one ever will be.Rumor says Johnston has attacked Grant and cut him up.June 13thSam Miller and myself went out to the Division at the "Breastworks" and I
               spent the day with some friends in the 12th and 154th Tenn. very pleasantly. They are
               working hard on the breastworks, which will be very strong, when they are finished
               but they are of too great a length to be held easy.A man was shot in the 8th Tenn yesterday, for desertion. It is said that he deserted
               twice and then bushwhacked us. Smith's Brigade consists of 4 regiments, 11th, 12th & 47th, 13th & 154th
               and 29th. The first from Middle the latter from Middle & East and the others from
               West Tennessee. The consolidated regiments (12th & 47th) (13th & 154th) only
               count for two instead of four.June 14th Sunday.Maj. Cross has gone to Stewart's Division and Capt. J.K. Hope issued rations
               today to the Brigade. Chaplain Hearn returned this evening and says he has a full
               supply of religious Books and papers. He has seen most of the sick and wounded in the
               hospitals. Tandy Morris is well and on duty.It is about as easy to hear from Europe as Vicksburg. Everything in that direction is
               dark and gloomy.Chaplain McCutchen of the 24th preached to a large crowd.The Inspection was very close, this morning and all cartridges lost charged. But few
               were found missing. The revival has been revived during the last week and several
               professions have occured.June 15thThe French have taken Peubla and the City of Mexico is considered doomed. The wheat
               crops here are fine and ripening fast. The harvest will soon commence. If Rosy will
               stay away a few days, we will have plenty of biscuit.June 16thThe regiment has been supplied with plenty of clothing within the last 3 or 4 days,
               of a very good quality. Wise Laurie from town this morning reports but few sick being
               sent off, only 13 today.Today's Rebel gives a brighter view of things around Vicksburg. Capt. Hampton
               drilled us today and did very well. He is a fine officer. Next best to Col. Strahl in
               the 4th. The weather today is extremely warm.June 17thThe State convention meets today at Winchester. They can make good selections, if a
               great number of candidates will avail anything. Col. Strahl, Col. Tansill, Maj. Payne
               and others are gone. Col. (Walker who commands in Col. Strahl's absence) drilled
               us.The day still warmer than yesterday. The Rebel says that two officers, (Col. Orton
               and Lieut. C.S.A.) were hung as spies at Franklin a few days since they passed off as
               Inspectors of Rosencranz. A bold trick, but fool-hardy one.Just as Dress Parade was over the "Assembly" was again sounded and the
               regiment formed with many conjectures, when an order was read stating that Gen Early
               had captured Gen. Wilson at Winchester Va. with 8 or 9 thousand men.June 18thThe Chicago Times has been suppressed. It was the boldest opposer of Lincoln's
               outrages. A mob collected but were restrained from violence by its cool calculating
               leader. Vallandigham has been nominated by the Democrats for Governor of Ohio.It is rumored that Col. Campbell will be appointed to command us. No one likes it.
               Gen. Braggs late orders are dated at Shelbyville.Today's Rebel has the news read yesterday evening verbatim. It has also a rumor
               that Judge R.L. Caruthers is nominated for Governor.June 19thAn order from the Secretary of War changing the No. of some regiments numbered alike
               says ours will still be known as the 5th and Col. Hill's as the 35th. A letter
               from Lieut. Hendricks is dated Yazoo City Miss. June 8th. Rumors of all kinds are
               afloat about battles in Virginia, at Vicksburg and Port Hudson, but I know not which
               to credit.The wheat crop here is ripe and bountiful. It could not be saved were the army not
               here. The negro cooks find employment. An order from Col. Keller allows two men from
               each Co. to assist and by that means the crop is being reaped fast.Johnson's Brigade has been transferred from Cleburne's to Stewart's
               Division. It consists of the 17th, 23rd, 25th and 44th Tennessee Regiments.June 20thLt. Col. Atkins is in camp this morning and ssays he is nominated to Congress (from
               the 9th Dist.) and Judge Caruthers for Governor. Gen. Wharton's Brigade of
               Cavalry has arrived here to relieve Gen. Martin's, to allow them to go to the
               rear and recruit up somewhat.Today's Rebel has cheering news from Virginia. Hooker is falling back, our
               Cavalry advancing into Pennsylvania and the Governors of Penn. and Ohio getting
               frightened, and calling loudly for men and Old Abe also cries out for 100 thousand.
               The prospect around Vicksburg is brightening fast, 10 or 12 persons were baptized by
               Chaplain Hearn this evening.Lieut. McClennick leaves for home tomorrow. x x x.June 21st SundayChaplain Hearn preached an excellent sermon to a large crowd in the morning. The
               Sunday School was rather dull as all were sleepy from sitting up so much at the
               nightly meetings which continue with much success.A poor deranged woman was in camp this evening enquiring for her son, who she said
               was in Jeff. Davis' Regiment. Some of the boys had so little feeling as to laugh
               at this. They should be ashamed of it. I could not help but deeply pitying her.The enemy has made a raid into East Tennessee but have been repulsed at Knoxville.
               Wiggins' Battery leaves tomorrow for Columbia Martin's Brigade to which it
               belongs is said to be going to West Tennessee.June 22ndGen. Martin's Brigade having been relieved by Gen. Wharton's has left for
               the rear, or somewhere else.Esq Green has arrived with some letters, none for me. He brings a doleful account of
               the "Situation" in Henry. Says the yankees are pressing horses, mules
               etc. and that the negroes are not running off, but moving off.I have just read the first volume of Our Own Heroes. It is fine. I wish they would
               publish the other soon. It is exaggerated somewhat. No such characters live just
               now.No Rebel today. They set no type on Sunday. No Brigade Drill which is uncommon
               very!(Note) Town means Shelbyville Tenn when occurring in first half of 1863.June 23rdCapt. Only drilled us. He made no great mistakes, but gave his commands in a weak and
               rather careless voice. Several ladies from Nashville and Memphis are in camp today
               and the officers are stepping around generally.The news from Vicksburg is that another attack has been made and 10 thousand yankees
               killed in the fight. The bridge at Strawberry Plains was burnt by Carter in his raid
               into East Tennessee. There is but little news from Va. but it must be that Hooker is
               falling back or changing base and Lee advancing. Lincoln continues to call for more
               men.June 24thWhile Col. Keller would only allow 2 from a Co. to help harvest in the country he
               orders this morning that all who wish to go be allowed to help Mr. Ransom where he
               boards. This needs no comment. Early in the day it commenced raining and
               continues.An advance of the enemy is rumored and as I write cannon is heard in front. In the
               evening a wounded man passed the road, wounded in a skirmish. He was wounded in the
               shoulder.Can hear nothing definite from the front. Cannonading continues until late. The news
               from Vicksburg of yesterday is confirmed.June 25thAnother day of rain. It has continued to pour down since yesterday morning almost
               incessantly. Harvesting is suspended and all are ordered to remain in camp and ready
               to move at a moments notice.The light from the burning village of Middleton was plainly visible last night, and
               the signal Corps constantly telegraphing until late. All the movements by the yankees
               this way has been made towards Middleton and now they have at last succeeded in
               destroying it.Spent the day mostly playing Chess, which I delight in, though I can never learn to
               play it to any advantage. While the regiment was forming for Dress Parade, orders
               came to get supper and pack up blankets. Something up!June 26thAbout sundown yesterday we were in motion for the front, but ere we reached the pike
               we were ordered to return and cook one day's rations. The prospect of exchanging
               a muddy road for a dry bed raised a joyful shout from the regiment.Our Cavalry have been driven back about 2 miles. The 11th Infantry went out to the
               Gap yesterday. The 33rd was ordered out and back when we were. The rations were soon
               cooked and we gave ourselves over to slumber, but were aroused by Reveille at 3 o'clock but I went back to bed soon after.Fighting has been going on to the right and Cannonading is still going on in that
               direction. Hoover's & Liberty Gaps are said to be in possession of the
               Yankees, and the loss in Bate's & Lyddell's Brigades are said to be
               heavy. Sam Miller is very sick.June 27thWe were aroused soon after daylight and ordered to strike tents and pack up.
               Everything was soon loaded and we took the road towards Shelbyville. When we reached
               the pike, the Band struck up "Farewell to Old Tennessee" and I could not
               help fearing that it would prove so.When we reached the breastworks we found the rest of the Division gone and the truth
               flashed upon us that we were evacuating. When near the suburbs of the town we halted
               and the wagon train passed at doublequick. The town looked lonesome. Some few ladies
               stared at us while others were making efforts to get on the last train which was
               leaving.Sam Miller - poor fellow! just succeeded in getting on. The Depot Platform was
               covered with Commissaries which will be lost. After halting awhile we moved on just
               as Gen. Polk took his departure. Oh! such roads!Afterleaving town the roads through the cedar glades were one continuous mudhole, and the
               weather hotter, I believe than I ever felt it. A mile almost prostrated us. When we
               reached Duck river Bridge (5 miles) we came up with Cleburne's Division from
               Wartrace. Broken down wagons appear very often. Cannonading is heard in the rear.We marched on through the mud and heat (though slowly) until dark when we bivouacked
               for the night within 6 miles of Tullahoma. There is no murmuring and the retreat is
               as well conducted as the roads will admit. All seem to be aware of the necessity of
               the move and submit patiently.Henry Melton arrived from Henry today xxx. He says there are no Yankees there except
               at Fort Heiman. But the negroes are running off regularly. He says he saw Pa two
               weeks ago and that all were well. That is consoling.June 28th SundayRain soon broke my slumber last night But a soldier's ingenuity soon provided a
               shelter and I slept soundly until Reveille. The marching soldier's particular
               hate aroused me.We plodded on through the mud at the rate of at least a quarter of a mile an hour,
               waiting for the wagons to get out of the way for the falling rain added to the slop
               made them the next thing to impassable, for some, while others mired and broke down.
               Near noon the rain ceased and the sun returned to its yesterday's heat.Reached Tullahoma about 5 o clock P.M. tired, muddy, hungry, wet, but still patient.
               It is a wilderness of tents around where we are. The threatening of the enemy to turn
               our right flank through Hoover's Gap has caused this retreat but I am afraid
               that we are not yet so near a strategic point as tobe out of danger of being flanked.The enemy pressed our Cavalry closely yesterday. They were momentarily checked near
               Shelbyville and a piece of Wiggins' Battery, planted in the square poured the
               grape into them, but they charged taking 3 or 4 pieces of the Battery with the
               Captain and most of the cannoneers. They fought through town some of the women crying
               Hurrah for Jeff Davis and some for Abe Lincoln.I see no fortifications here but some redoubts with plenty of felled timber and the
               country is so flat that it cannot be made very strong. Some troops left on the train
               this evening, it is said to guard some bridges on the railroad.Gen. Cheatham is said to have treated a wagoner roughly today. It does seem that he
               should not be allowed to continue thus to use his men as his passions dictate.June 29thWhile Brigade guard was being mounted this morning orders arrived for us to go to the
               front and the greatest confusion ensued, I have seen for two years. Everyone seemed
               excited about nothing. When we got to town, troops, Infantry, Cavalry, Artillery were
               moving in every direction.We moved out somewhere near the centre of the line and took up our position among the
               felled trees. One section of Stanford's Battery in a little Redoubt between the
               19th & 33rd. The other between the 5th and the 19th.It commenced raining early and continued at intervals through the day. All got
               soaking wet. The enemy is advancing but I know nothing else correct.Smith's Brigade has gone to the extreme front. 4 days rations have been issued
               and cooked.June 30thIt has at last ceased raining and we enjoyed one night's uninterrupted sleep. We
               soon went to work and by night with axes & spades we had made a tolerable
               breastwork of logs and dirt. A Redoubt is being thrown up on the left of the regt.
               for a section of Stanford's Battery.Buckner's Division arrived last night from Knoxville and the spirits of all are
               raised. Several of the 10th Tenn. Cav. once of this Regt & of the 154th came in
               to see us and report different news from the front.The enemy is evidently advancing but slowly. Men are detailed (evening) to cook three
               days more rations. What do they mean. I hear Gen. Bragg has gone sick to Chattanooga.
               Polk commanding tha Army, Cheatham the Corps and Maney the Division.I do not like our position at all we cannot advance or retreat without encountering
               fallen timber. Mr. Melton starts home tomorrow x x x.I do not think we will make a stand this side of Bridgeport, though we may stay here
               a day or two. The enemy is endeavoring to turn our right flank. Some of the troops
               are leaving on the trains.July 1stRecieved orders soon after midnight and put in motion towards Winchester, nearing
               town I saw a large Siege Piece with the carriage on fire. At the Depot the cars were
               crowded with Artillery and more waiting transportation, but the cars were not
               allowedto whistle at all. We waited till daylight and traveled but little, waiting for the
               wagons to get on and our sleepy patience was sorely tried.By daylight we had gotten under way and made quick time until 11 o'clock, when
               we reached Allison's Bridge (over Elk River) about 12 miles. The roads are not
               so bad as they have been but bad yet. The heat has been almost insupportable. When we
               reached here every one seemed ready to fall. Another mile would have been more than
               we could have borne.Everything I think is safely in the rear. The Railroad Bridge has been destroyed.
               This is a picturesque place. With a long sleep, a snack of biscuit and bacon good
               water and a cool bath in the river we were by night, considerably refreshed. They ar
               hauling our knapsacks this march a very unusual occurrence.July 2ndAn accidental firing of the pickets on our own Cavalry at daylight aroused us out of
               a long night of refreshing slumber and some excitement ensued, but it was soon
               quelled. After sunup we took up line of march, passing near Winchester and after
               considerable counter-marching, halting, stopping etc. we found a road not already
               occupied and reached Cowan's Station, near the tunnel in the evening. I know not
               how far. A half dozen crackers and a mouthful of fat Bacon was issued, and stacking
               guns in line of battle we bivouacked for the night.Allisonia Bridge was destroyed this morning, though the Cavalry is said to have acted
               shamefully. The 1st Ala. Cav. who were surprised on picket once at Guy's Gap at
               night and scattered, hearing a few guns stampeded in the rear of Cheatham's
               & Withers' Divisions this evening andscattered everywhere. They are certainly the biggest cowards in the army.Morgan is said to have burned 700 wagons in the enemy's rear. The enemy are
               pressing us closely and preparations are making this evening for fighting.The wagons are crossing the mountains. The weather today has been (if possible)
               warmer than the last few. The men are standing it finely, but still several have
               given out and been put on the train.The country around Winchester is beautiful indeed. Situate near the foot of the
               mountain on the bank of a nice stream and built on a level plain. Mary Sharp (Female)
               College is located here. The bell was tolling for the Brave Col. Starnes as we
               passed. He was wounded at Tullahoma and has since died. Our Brigade is in the rear
               and has been since leaving Guy's Gap.July 3rdThe cars after plying back & forth all night, all left this morning and the
               bridge near the depot was burnt. Filling our canteens and waiting for the rest of the
               Brigade to pick up their knapsacks (Capt Ray preserved ours) which had been thrown
               out of the wagons, we commenced the ascent of the Cumberland Mountain, which was
               rather bitter. About half way up it rained a little and made the roads as slick as
               ice, but we toiled on.The wagons (of Forest & Wharton) occupied the centre of the road the Infantry
               each side and the Cavalry the woods. Smith's Brigade in the rear. The Cavalry
               had a sharp skirmish at the Depot, with the enemy. Halted before night at a nice
               stream on top of the mountain, after travelling about 12 or 15 miles.July 4thStarted early and after travelling about 3 miles came to the descent of the mountain
               which was steeper than the ascent. The effect was seen in broken down wagons &
               ambulances. Entering Indian Cove we followed Swedian Creek to Battle Creek and that
               to the river. The valley of the latter was full of the signs of Buell's last
               summer encampment. While waiting along for the wagons reports came in of a sharp
               skirmish between Cavalry at the ascent of the mountain and another on top of the
               mountain and a wounded Rebel and yankee prisoner (of the 5th Ky) passed us.On ascending a little rise late in the evening, the long - looked for haven of rest -
               Tennessee River - hove in sight, and crossing Battle Creek on a small pontoon and
               ascending the river a mile we were soon on the pontoon over the river and were soon
               over. Reaching the other bank, we saw a Steamboat lying there loaded with
               Commissaries and a joyful shoutarose, (for we have been subsisting two days on one small ration). Camping soon we
               drew half a ration of crackers and half of flour (with bacon) the latter, though,
               (without cooking utensils) was of little use.The wagons have precede us to Shell Mound. We were hurried over Battle Creek to
               destroy the bridge. The day has been awful warm! hot!!July 5th SundayReveille aroused us about daybreak, and we were soon splashing through the mud and
               after waiting an hour or so on the roadside, (for I know not what,) we continued to
               Shell Mound, reaching there about 11 o clock, (6 miles.) Most of the wagons had gone
               on, to Chattanooga.Drew two day's rations and spent the evening cooking them with the few cooking
               utensils left us to use. The sick and barefooted sent from Cowan's, deserted
               Maj. Gordon's Battalion at Bridgeport and arrived here this morning.Train loads of stragglers are leaving here most of thetime. I can find out nothing of the other parts of the army else than this Division.
               I wish we could get to our knapsacks and change clothing for we need it. The
               Artillery is being sent off on the trains. I had hoped that we would be allowed to go
               now on the train but not so, for in the evening orders came to load cooking utensils
               and prepare to march at 5 o clock in the morning and early.July 6thWe commenced our tortuous and toilsome march. What a time! The roads are more
               sidling, muddier, crookeder, and rockier than I ever saw before or ever hope to see
               again, but we toiled on over hills, mountains, rocks, foot-logs, through mud, water,
               swollen torrents etc, but the "Web Foot Cavalry" trained under the
               indomitable Stewart, toiled on almost unmurmuringly.While other troops are on the train, we continue to march. The railroad track is
               covered with stragglerssick broken down and half-barefooted men. All of ours of those classes were sent off
               on the train last night.We halted after passing (through a shower) at "Etna" Coal Mine. Here we
               spent the evening and I took the chance to visit the mine. After following the "car track" about a mile and a half we came to the mine which is entered by a
               tunnel cut for the track about 6 feet wide and from 4 to 6 feet high. The strata of
               coal is two or three feet thick at the bottom of the tunnel. At no place is it cut
               wider than the 6 feet but has many branches each supplied with a track. I went to the
               end of the main one, about 300 yards. No one was digging but all engaged repairing
               some damage done the track outside.The clear profits to the owner is said to be about 300 dollars per day. This is one
               of seven he owns. The hands make about 10 dollars per day. It was a sight worth
               seeing.July 7thAfter waiting some time for the train to take us on to Chattanooga, we started in the
               rain to walk the railroad, and had gone but a little distance before we met 8 trains
               coming down. We halted at the next coal mine about a mile and one of the trains soon
               came back and took up Smith's Brigade and soon one and took ours. The change
               from muddy roads to a car was indeed pleasant. I had almost given it out (after so
               many disappointments and vexations) and felt resigned to walk.We passed the camp of Cleburne's Division before we reached Lookout Mt.
               Chattanooga looks changed in the suburbs. Many shops & cars are rising up. We
               were ordered right away to our old camp of last summer and a few moments warm
               marching brought us to the (old place.) How natural it looks, only grown up a
               little.But how changed are we. Col.Venable is dead. Lt. Col. Swor is away. In the Co. Corp. Harris lies at Perryville.
               Corp. Duff lies in the Hospital Cemetery at Atlanta. Other, once familiar faces are
               missing. But where are they all.In the Brigade, Gen. Stewart and his Staff Reed, Hatcher, Beard, Cross, Capt. Stewart
               and "Frank" are missing. Perryville holds the brave Capt. Gillett.
               Murfreesboro tells where Col. Bratton received his death wound and still not all is
               told.Last summer the white tents covered the hill now but two or three can be seen. Then
               we had all the country could afford of luxuries, now we are tired, wet, hungry, muddy
               and travel worn. Eleven days have we been almost continually moving when will we stop
               for good.July 8thThe day is spent moving round and fixing up. Last night I slept where I did last
               summer, but we must move a little. While we feel at home, the 19th seems lost. The
               4th & 5th occupy the ground the 5th did last summer.This morning's Rebel says Lee has defeated Meade at Martinsburg Md. taking
               40,000 prisoners. This must be rather stretched. Vicksburg is reported as taken.
               Magruder's forces are operating around New Orleans successfully.Several old members of this regiment now in Cavalry are here and efforts are being
               made to get them back.July 9thThe day is spent in fixing up, washing and cleaning the guns, which exposed to the
               rain for the last two weeks, have become rustier than they ever were before and the
               job of cleaning is no easy one.A Brigade Guard has been placed around us, with stricter orders than we have ever had
               before. A General Provost Guard has been placed under Provost Marshall Doyle and
               police the country regularly.The news from Gen. Lee is confirmed. It is generally believed that Vicksburg has gone
               the way of New Orleans and Island No. 10. There is plenty of goods in town of almost
               every kind, but what prices. They terrify a man to hear them mentioned.July 10thVicksburg has certainly changed hands. Pemberton surrendered with his army in a
               starving condition. The officers were allowed to keep their side arms and all private
               property and have been paroled and sent to Jackson. Only 7,000 effective men were
               surrendered. Great excitement prevails in Washington mingled with fear.Company inspection this evening. Grant is moving on Jackson Miss. I tremble for
               Johnston's small army there. The enemy are making no demonstrations in our
               front.Cooking utensils are so scarce that twelve of us are messing together. Everything is
               so dull here. I wish I was almost anywhere else. Regimental Inspection at 9, By order
               of Col. Strahl.July 10th (?) The Battle has opened at Jackson Miss. and at the odds there is little hope of
               success. The news from Penn. seems to indicate that Lee is not accomplishing a great
               deal there. Oh! What a dark era is opening. I cannot bear to think of it.Lieut's Milam & Milliken are just in from Henry Co. but bring but little
               news of importance. The negroes are not running off quite as fast as they have been.
               The enemy has attacked Charleston but has not made any impression as yet.Sergt. Flack (by order of the Capt.) is acting as Orderly, and I am relieved of some
               trouble, for awhile at least. How pleasant is liberty after 12 months confinement.
               (1907 note: It ought to read 14).July 11thIt is strange to see how many of the regiment are in Cavalry, of those who have
               deserted. Efforts have been made to get them back but they have failed from some
               reason. Only one of our Co. is among the number. (Burnly) Lieut. Staton's
               sentence read on Dress Parade. He is caashiered, and Col. Strahl gives him two days
               to enlist or be conscripted. Polk Peeples has enlisted in Co. "I".An order was read to cook one days rations and be ready to move at 6 o'clock
               with out arms. (To fortify I suppose.) I am perfectly willing to fortify here. It is
               the most important point in this part of the Confederacy and one very strong by
               nature. It is very important also to us.July 12th Sunday!The order to move this morning has been countermanded, until tomorrow. (Monday.) Esq.
               Green leaves for the West Tuesday and I spent most of the day writing home xxx. I
               know not, cannot guess whenI will have another chance.Chaplain McCutchen preached after "Inspection". Writing prevented my
               attending. We are not doing well here by any means. Rations are small and tents or
               fly's does not exist.My letter home is gloomy, for I am looking for the second dark period of the
               Revolution to begin, and I dread it. The North West (since Vicksburg has fallen,)
               will submit peaceably to the draft and Lincoln can increase his army to almost any
               number.July 13thAt six we were off to town, (leaving the sick and barefooted behind). Arriving there
               we drew spades & picks and set to work on the breastworks on the bluffs on each
               side of the town.Being on the "3rd Relief", I climbed a hill near and seated on a point of
               rock I employed the time reading Mrs. Ford's "Raids & Romances of
               Morgan and his Men," which is very good I think. She is a good writer anyhow.
               The characters are rather overdrawn though.When not at work we could get passes and most of us visited the town and feasted on
               cakes & cider. There are plenty of goods of all kinds here, but what prices.
               About twenty times as much as before the war began.July 14thGoing out to Capt. Ray's quarters to get some clothing (not being noticed by the
               guards) Col. Strahl came along with Maj. Finley (A & I Gen. of Brigade.) I with
               others was asked how we got out, and being told, they enquired of the sentinel, and
               he tremblingly told them he halted us, we were ordered in arrestat No 1, until
               tomorrow morning. We therefore reported to Lieut Murphy (officer of the Guard,) and
               spent the day there.Lieut W.E. Harris mad application for our release and was told by Col. Strahl if the
               sentinel said he halted us to have us released and he placed in arrest. When asked he
               said he halted some, but could not say who they were. So we were kept, and he put
               with us. He is to be pitied having been in service (in 24th Tenn) only 2 months and
               never on Brigade Guard before.My companions were Sergt's Flack, Provine, Lewis, Moffitt, KirkpatrickCraig and Brevard, and Privates Kirby and Adams. Feeling innocent we took it easy and
               proved a jolly set. The only humiliation is that such a man as Finley should have
               anything to do with it, or any power over us. He is a foppish, big headed fool and
               everybody despises him. I have ever respected Col. Strahl but if such childish doings
               are to characterize him he is getting worse.If he cannot make his sentinels fear to disobey his orders he cannot make them do
               their duty by arresting men doing nothing but their duty. Every one I have seen think
               it a very foolish arrest. During the day we were visited by most all of the officers
               and men of our companies, and were far from being without sympathy.July 15thWhat was our surprise this morning when a list of our names was furnished to the new
               "officer of the Guard" and we were turned over to him. This began to look
               too much like it was in earnest and I sent for Capt Kendall and explaining the thing,
               asked him to see Col. Strahl. He soon returned with an order for our release. We
               returned joyfully to our quarters.Esq. Green left for home yesterday with a large mail. He will have to stop making
               trips now.Grant has been reported in all his attacks upon Jackson with loss. Lee has fallen
               back a little in Penn & Md. The enemy is making no demonstrations in our front.
               Port Hudson is reported taken. Magruder has repossessed all of Louisiana west of the
               Miss River. It is rumored that Gen. Withers has resigned.July 17th SundayWe were ordered to cook one day's rations last night, and prepare for fatigue
               duty this morning, but when morning came only the 4th went. The rations are shorter
               now than they have ever been, (in camp) before. But little meal and flour hardly ever
               bacon, and beef (extremely poor) but seldom. Lard is substituted for Bacon.Have finished reading "Raids of Morgan" and think it a very good novel.
               It is all the go now. Everybody is reading it. How I would love to send a copy
               home.The weather is cool and the air as smoky and hazy as October. Lt. Col. Owens (46th)
               has been slightly wounded in right arm at Jackson. I think him a good officer. Col.
               Biffle is said to be making a raid into West Tennessee.July 18thThe regt. worked on the fortifications half a mile east of town, today. It being the
               day for making Tri-Monthly Reports I was not obliged to go but making them early I
               went, and spent the day in town. I eat as much as I wanted for once, but it was at an
               enormous price.Gen. Lee has safely recrossed his army to the Virginia side of the Potomac. A
               discreet movement certainly.Rumor says Rosencranz has moved his Headquarters to Winchester. No news from
               Charleston or Jackson.Most all the soldiers I saw in town had on nice new Gray Roundabouts. It is sickening
               to see the quantity of flashy officers around town. Enough to break any government to
               keep up.McGuire has returned from hospital this evening. A man by the name ofWhitehead was shot yesterday (for desertion & murder) near town. He shot three
               men when retaken. Some who visited the grave today say that the blood covered the
               ground.July 19th SundayAfter "Inspection," I visited Maney's Battalion, and find the
               companies I came up from Waverly with, in December last, greatly thinned by disease
               and desertion. One of 80 men has lost 18 by disease. It is almost death to come out
               in the winter.From what I heard I fear that I will lose the mule I left near Waverly, Mr. L.M.D.
               Toland having failed to carry out his promise. The vacancies in the regiment are
               being filled (by election) 1st Sergt. J.H. Jordan of Co. E and 1st Sergt. S.
               Kirkpatrick of Co. "K" to Jun. 2nd Lieut's. Both good selections, I
               think.July 20thJohnston has fallen back from Jackson and now has Pearl River between him and Grant.
               Lieut Gen. Hardee is relieved from commannd of his Corps, and Lieut. Gen. D.H. Hill
               assigned to duty in his place. Some one says Hardee will be sent to Mississippi.July 22ndAll the wagons except one to a regt and all the ambulances except one to the Brigade
               have been ordered to georgia to graze the mules, and be nearer forage, which is a
               very important article and cannot be gottenhere except by the train. The regiment
               worked on the fortifications today but I got off on the plea of being nearly
               barefooted. Four companies of the 24th have been sent to guard a bridge near the foot
               of Lookout.July 23rdA year ago today we left Tupelo for this place, but with brighter prospects than we
               have now. We were then coming towards home.Sam Lamb, brother of the Major, and Druggist of the regiment died this morning and
               was buried this evening. The scene at the grave was the only one I have seen for a
               long time where all were solemn.M. Corbitt of Co. C. has been elected Jun. 2nd Lieut. He was O.S. the first year of
               the war. Fayette Lemonds who was elected in Co I at Murfreesboro will be examined.
               Lieut. W.E. Harris has a furlough and has gone to Atlanta. He is certainly the
               luckiest man I ever saw.It is reported that Col. Biffle is getting great numbers of recruits in West
               Tennessee, there being no yankees there. Col. Strahl has issued strict orders for the
               improvements of the Bands.July 24thCapt. Bowman and Lieut's Copeland & Wilson, together with Cal Cherry arrived
               this evening. They left Henry on the 4th inst, but remained awhile in Hickman County.
               They report no Yankees there except at Fort Heiman & Columbus. Col Biffle (they
               report) had a fight at Spring Creek, with 5 hundred Federals capturing nearly all of
               them.He went into the region with 500 and came out with 2,500. Eight companies coming to
               him in one day. He has returned. Cal. started with about 200 letters, (one for me
               from home,) but sent them all back for fear of capture. He was at Pa's and all
               was going well. Oh! how I wish he could have got my letter through.Capt. B. reports the Federals enrolling the militia in "The Purchase."
               negroes and all at first, but they have left off the negroes now.July 25thAnother of Col. Strahl's extraordinary orders came out yesterday evening, in
               substance that we shall not bathe in the creek but twice a week and then only under
               the eyes of a man entitled to a parchment from Jeff Davis, who is to be responsible
               for every rail misplaced, every sprig of cloves trampled, every gate left open and
               every cavalryman who is muddying the creek with his horse rocked out. O!ye man with
               military power, who straineth at a gnat and swalloweth a camel.A detail of 50 men worked on the fortifications, but that excuses me. 10 pairs of
               shoes are drawn for both co's but that will not near supply the deficit. The
               last march wore them out by the wholesale.Staff officers are getting too lazy to live, They can do nothing without half a dozen
               assistants.July 26th SundayCol. Cocke of Knoxville addressed the Brigade at Col. Walker's quarters last
               night. He is a man of some little talent but speaks too scattering. No connection
               whatever. His closing remarks were such as no man should use in speaking. He is
               running against the nominee (Swan) of the 2nd Cong. Dist. and will of course be
               beat.I visited friends in the 12th 38th and 154th Regts. In the 38th I found in Co. D.
               Lieut. R.B. Koen, my old Instructor.Had I not have been introduced by a friend I should not have recognized in the rebel
               of /63, sitting under a blanket (stretched for a shelter) the Principal of the New
               Boston Male Academy of /56, who used to reign supreme over 60 or 70 of us boys. I
               have not seen him since then, though he has been with us ever since we went to
               Corinth. He looked dull at first, but talking of thewar he soon brightened up and wore the same intelligent countenance of old.We talked an hour or two about old times. This called to mind old schoolmates. How
               scattered we are. The Howards, Olives, Morris, Wynns, Daniel, Edwards, Dumas, and
               myself in this Regt. Some in the 46th, Wright Lieut in an Ark. regt. Lieut. Wilson of the 7th Miss. While
               others have fallen, others been discharged and alas! some deserted.July 28thGov. Foote and Collyer of Winchester addressed the Brigade last night. Foote is
               certainly a talented man and a great Statesman. He has done a great deal in the last
               Congress. His venerable appearance sound argument and gentlemanly demeanor gained him
               many votes. He is the nominee for the 5th District. His opponent Col. Savage has been
               treated badly by the government, has done his duty in the war and was a good member
               when in Congress.So I think if I vote at all it will be for him. Colyar speaks like he knew some
               things, but is lacking in something, I hardly know what. He has no opponent. Another
               candidate from the Dist. Col. Nixon of the 48th Tenn. was in the regt. a few days
               ago, but didn't make any impression.Lieut. Wilson starts to Henry today. I write by him x x x. A detail of 50 men from
               the regt. went to town this morning to work on the works for four days, but returned
               because they were not ready for them yet.Hats and the much needed shoes are being furnished.One small fly (monopolized by the
               officers) is issued to the company.Tom Browning went to the hospital yesterday with a hemorrhage of the lungs. I fear
               for him.July 30thThe newly elected officers were examined today, for Capt. B.F. Peeples, for Lieuts.
               of Co. C. M. Corbitt, 2nd J.H. Jordan, Co. E 2nd F.M. Clark, Co. F. 1st J.L. Lemonds,
               Co. I. 2nd S. Kirkpatrick, Co. K 2nd. So far as I know all proved satisfactory.Great indignation is expressed in the regt at the order for all the recruiting
               officers to "repair to West Tenn. and remain there until further orders."
               To strike out the words, "until further orders," and substitute the word
               always would not make it any stronger. What will come next?Capt. Kendall, Lieut. Harris and others talk of getting relieved for awhile. I fear
               if the former does, the discipline of the Company will relax greatly.August 1stSpent the day in town with Charlie (Provine) eating the delicacies of the season, but
               at a great cost. A Detail from the Brigade is engaged in throwing up a redoubt or
               fort on a hill this side of town and when completed will be the strongest work I ever
               saw.The enemy are at Bridgeport, and tell our boys across the river to make haste and
               fortify all they can in 8 days, as they will have their place by the end of that
               time. Lieut. Fuqua has been relieved and left this evening.It is thought that the next movement of the enemy will be into East Tennessee,
               crossing the mountains between here and Cumberland Gap.August 3rdCapt. Kendall & Lieuts Humphries & Hudson have been relieved respectively by
               Capt. Peeples, Lieut's. Jordan & Corbitt and leave for Marietta this evening
               to report to Gen. Pillow. I feel sorry to see Capt. Kendall leave. He has commanded
               us more than a year with much credit to himself and pleasure to us, but he wishes
               some recreation and says he will soon return.I think it the wildest scheme lately devised to send recruiting officers so far into
               the enemy's lines, when it is death to be found recruiting and impossible to get
               a single man out of there. A letter from Lieut. A. Pillow, Mobile says ther is only
               one Brigade there. No news today from any quarter.Aug 6th ThursdayThe election came off today. It ia held in each Regiment as it used to be at each
               precinct. It was held in this by Capt. Bunch. He & Capt. Only acting as judges.
               Adjt. Kendall and Lieut's. Howard & McCormack as clerks. No excitement
               exists except between Savage & Foote. I went to Wright's Brigade last night
               to hear Savage, but rain prevented his speaking. Perkins of the 6th Dist. spoke after
               twelve. He excites sympathy for his treatment by the yankees and gained some
               votes.The Rebel of today mentions among others the promotion of Col. Strahl. He is not
               assigned to duty yet, though the passes this morning were approved by order of Brig
               Gen Strahl.Aug 7thThe whole Regiment worked on the fortifications today. A thousand men are now
               detailed per day, and the work is being pushed forward fast.Took a dinner of vegetables with Charlie P and W G. Trent at a house near by which I
               enjoyed extremely. Spent a pleasant hour after with the young lady of the house.
               (Miss Faidley. It rained and we remained for shelter till it was over. The rain
               obstructed the work for the day.Col. Strahl's promotion gives way for others and Lt. Col. Keller, Maj. Finley
               and Capt. Hampton go up to Col. Lt. Col. and Maj. respectively. None of them are
               assigned to duty yet. The 5th is indignant that they should be promoted so soon,
               while the Colonelcy in our regt. has been vacant so long.Aug 8thAnother day of work. Gen. Cheatham just returned from furlough passed, and some
               audacious fellows of the 1st Regt. called out "How are you Frank." Not to
               be out done he lifted his hat and then they cheered him lustily. But as he returned
               from town, cries of "more Bacon" "more Rations," met him.An officer of the engineers ordered some of the men out of the shade to work today
               for a team, but they hissed him until he walked off. He soon returned with his sword
               but failed to move them.An order was read on Dress Parade this evening stating that Col. Swor had failed to
               undergo a satisfactory examination for promotion and promoting Maj. Lamb, his
               com-mission dating from Col. Venable's death. (Dec. 27th/62). So he is senior to
               Keller. While the order was being read, every one held his breath anxious to hear, as
               the Adjutant finished a murmur of applause ran through the ranks and discipline only
               restrained a shout.When the Parade was dismissed and before we of the 5th could say a word some one in
               the 4th proposed "Three cheers for Col. Lamb" and they were given
               heartily. Not a half hiss as soldiers are wont to give, but a free, hearty one. The "Band" serenaded him at night, and a large crowd gathering called him
               out. He said but little, but that little, instead of smacking of the braggadocio of
               the speakers and writers of the day made a just cause and a strict adherence to duty
               a surety of success. The 4th vies with the 5th in his praises and well may they.Aug. 10thOur regt and the 19th have been made a permanent detail to work on the
               fortifications. The rations are so small that none can stand work much, but it
               progresses better than could be expected. The engineer that favors his mules, sees no
               peace, but is hissed whenever he appears.The practice of "charging" fruit and vegetables is getting to be too
               common to be longer endured.The 19th, 11th and some other regiments have disgraced themselves, the State and the
               army. Gen. Strahl has a furlough and left this evening. Capt Kendall has returned
               with orders to report to Gen. Strahl at the end of two months.I have learned to swim since I came here and spend several hours each week bathing in
               the limpid stream that flows between here and Lookout.August 11thCol. Walker ushers his temporary promotion in with a Brigade Guard. The 24th 31st and
               33rd furnishing all the men. But guards here is a humbug. All conclude thus and any
               sentinel will lend his aid.Capt. Kendall left today carrying many letters One home for me. x x x. Andrew Duncan
               has turned up with Ed also in the 20th Tenn. A letter to Lieut J.W. Howard brings the
               news. We thought him in Ky.Fatigue duty has become a dread. The men are waked up before day and hurried off
               before sunup, ere they can get breakfast, and worked 5 hours on a small pone of
               corn-bread.August 12thAndrew Duncan was in town today & says he intends to return to the regt. He has
               become more of a soldier than he was when with us.Reports have become the order of the day. Gen. Bragg's A.A. Gen. sends an order
               nearly daily for a new kind of his own. Ordnance, Inspection, Extra Duty men,
               Detached men, Tents, cooking utensils, Transportation, Health, all come in for a
               share in his endless reports. The blank forms in the Regulations amount to nothing,
               when compared with his forms. I have spent most of yesterday and today, preparing
               them. But it relieves me from "Fatigues," which is an item.The police in town have become more vigilant and charging therefore played out, and
               private property protected. Gen. Hindman is commanding Withers' old
               Division.August 13thNo reports to make today and I must consequently work, but not more than is
               beneficial to health, will I do. News has played out and the papers become
               worthless.Aug. 14thThe following officers were announced today, as entitled to commissions. 2nd Lieut.
               M. Corbett, Co. C. 2nd Lieut J.H. Jordan, Co. E. 2nd Lieut. J.L. Lemonds Co. I. 2nd
               Lieut S. Kirkpatrick Co. K. and Capt B.F. Peeples Co. I. Several are also announced
               in the 4th Lieut. Sannoner as Capt. Lieut. Patton as 1st Lieut. etc.Sergt. Hagler and privates Blackwood and Compton Co. I. left for parts unknown on the
               12th. Also S. Lankford of Co. F.Aug. 15thThe officers commissioned yesterday were assigned to duty today, in their respective
               companies by Col. Lamb. Lieut J.H. Jordan goes up to Sen. 2nd Lieut. and Geo. W.
               Crawford has been elected Jun. 2nd Lieut. beating Sergt. Trent, Rainy &
               Daniel.Aug. 16th SundayI was sick enough to miss Inspection for the first time in a long time. I was too
               weak to walk about much during the day, so I spent it in helping the Adjutant arrange
               his papers and orders, which is congenial to my inclinations. My organ of order is
               large.800 West Tennesseans have arrived at Okalona Miss, to enter the service. Hurrah for
               my native land.Aug 19thA heavy detail of men are made every day to work on the fortifications and it is no
               little trouble to make it without encountering grumbling and to get them up to start
               at 4 A.M. worse, & to get the Co. up to reveille at 3 o'clock worse
               still.Gen. Bragg says that Col. Swor's case must go to the War Department for decision
               and Col. Lamb comes back to Maj.Sergt. Haglar and Compton & Blackwood who deserted several days ago have returned
               of their own accord and are being tried. I pity them, because they had the good will
               to return, but do not think they should go unpunished. Cunningham & Jones of Co.
               B are with them.Aug. 20thI visited Look Out Mountain yesterday with Wes. Bowden and Julian Frazer and enjoyed
               the view finely, also a good dinner obtained on top. The day was somewhat cloudy and
               the view not so good. I saw the "Blowing Spring" and Cave, but could not
               get a guide for the latter.Fruit, pies etc. are brought into camp in some quantities, daily. Though we were paid
               a few days ago, high prices soon take all the money.Manigault's Brigade has gone to join Anderson's at Bridgeport, and rumors
               are afloat that the enemy has crossed the river at Bridgeport and that they have
               possession of the Island there and so forth.Aug. 21stToday's Rebel says that the enemy are advancing up Sequatchie valley. I had not
               read the above statement when the sound of cannon was heard and I soon heard that the
               enemy had advanced to the hills on the other side of the river and were shelling the
               town throwing them all around the depot.Lieut. A. Pillow is in town and spent the day out here. He looks as well as ever, is
               in fine spirits and says he has a stunning time at Mobile. His business is to get
               conscripts from Col. Blake to fill his company up which now consists mostly of Tenn.
               Conscripts.Shelling has reduced prices greatly in town which is one thing gained.Aug 22ndThree days rations were prepared yesterday, per orders and with them we moved to town
               and took up position in the grove near the depot on the left of the road.
               Smith's Brigade on the right.A Brigade guard was placed out and no one allowed to leave. But several squads
               conducted by officers went to town and when I (who was in one of them) was returning
               I with many others, (officers & men) was arrested, but I succeeded in escaping
               from the guard as did most of the others.Citizens are moving out by the wholesale. Two soldiers and five or six citizens were
               killed and wounded yesterday. It was "Thanksgiving Day" and the services
               were interrupted by the shelling.All the damaged Rolling Stock here was moved South today. The Hospital accommodations
               are being moved also. The Forwarding Hospital goes to Dalton Ga.Part of Smith's Brigade are picketing the river and sometimes get a shot at the
               enemy. Just before sundown the enemy commenced shelling again, throwing several in
               town and two over us, but did no damage. The boys brought trees to bear on them
               instinctively.Chaplain Hearn preached or rather spoke at night and a drunken man in the 19th
               disgraced himself his cause and his country by publicly cursing him while speaking.
               When Adjt. Johnson went to arrest him, he was told by Maj. Heiskell that he was sick
               and must be let alone. Tis useless to criticise such conduct as this. My words would
               not do do justice to my feelings.Aug 23rdThe Sabbath passed off quietly, except scenes with more drunkenmen of the 19th and
               their arrest. One man came near overcoming the guard. This 19th is or has become a by
               word for everything that is mean, from Desertion to that. It would be a happy day
               that would see them taken out of the Brigade.Last night was a busy one with the cars. All the cotton was taken off and I suppose
               other things. The day was dull indeed. No Preaching, no Sabbath School, nothing to
               read.Citizens continue to move out of town. About 70 of Gen. Polk's negroes arrived
               here several days ago overland and have been sent off east.Aug. 24thLast night was another busy one with the cars, but they became still at daylight.
               Gen. Strahl returned yesterday, but has not taken command yet.We were relieved by Wright's Brigade early in the morning, and I think
               Smith's by Maney's. Everyone expected to spend the day dodging shells, but
               it was far more pleasantly spent in camp.Rose of Co. A. House of Co. B. & McMeans of Co. E. have been returned from the
               Cavalry to the regt. Tom Browning has returned from the Hospital, but still looks
               bad.Lieut W.E. Harris left Saturday taking a letter home for me. x x x. He goes to
               recruit. The wagons have been ordered back. Geo. Wynns is elected 2nd Lieut. Co. I.
               beating Jno R. Peeples one vote.Aug. 25thGen. Strahl assumes command. Brigade Guard was placed out yesterday eve, and
               endeavors are made to keep all close in camp. It is reported that 20 thousand of the
               enemy have crossed below here. The Brigade News Boy (Harris) reports the P.O. removed
               to Dalton.Three flys have been drawn by the Co. but I have not been lucky enough to secure one.
               The officers monopolize two of them. O! that the day would come when I will not be
               dependent upon others. Col. Lamb again signs his name as I have just done.The weather this evening feels like October and fire is pleasant. An order this
               evening says Lieut. White of 8th Ga. Cavalry was to be hung last Saturday for
               encouraging giving information to enemy. I have heard nothing of the execution for
               certain.Aug 26thThe vacancies of Non commission officers in Co. D. has been filled by the election of
               W.D. Hendricks 5th sergt. and J.F. Parker & G.W. Pillow 3rd & 4th Corporals.
               They will draw pay as such but still act as privates. No passes signed today at
               Brigade Hdqrs. and all are kept in camp.About 12 o'clock we were ordered to cook two days rations and be ready to move
               & go on picket at half past two. Started about that time & after many
               wanderings countermarchings etc we arrived after dark at the place, traveling about
               12 miles to get 4 from camp. This was vexatious, but we have long ago learned to
               submit without murmuring at anything. I was tired enough to enjoy sleep & was
               soon locked in its arms.Aug. 27thOur part of the picket line extends along the river from about a mile above town to
               the mouth of Chicamauga Creek. Each Co. furnishes 6 men & two N.C.O. to be placed
               at 2 posts about a quarter of a mile apart. The 4th is further up the river. The
               orders are to allow no one to cross the river, either way.Capt. Onley commands the 4th, Capt. Bunch the 5th & Col. Lamb both. We relieved
               the 16th Tenn. No Yankees are to be seen on the other side.We feast highly on roasting ears from a government field near. A runaway negro woman
               and child was captured near the river this morning. A man was with her, but he made
               his escape.About 9 o'clock the enemy's commenced shelling the town again and
               continued mostthrough the day, killing 3 soldiers and wounding another of the 8th Miss, who were at
               work and wounding the Transportation Agent and two of his clerks. Several shot struck
               the Car Shed (as it is called).Aug. 28thPart of Walker's Division from Miss arrived here last night and the remainder
               and Breckenridge's also is said to be on the way. The Passenger train for
               Atlanta ran off at daylight this morning, (or an end of one car did,) opposite our
               post, but hurt no one. It is the worst piece of road I ever saw.It is said that Buckner has fallen back behind the Tenn. River giving up Cumberland
               Gap and Knoxville. It is reported Forrest has had a fight. Nothing from Virginia or
               Charleston. The over quantity ofGreen corn has made me sick, as it also has others. Some eat as many as a dozen ears
               per day. The government field has turned out to be the property of a widow, and I
               expect we will have it to pay for yet.Aug. 29thThe enemy shelled a little more in the early part of the day. I have not heard the
               result. The Yankees appeared on the other bank and offered to exchange papers with
               Capt. McNeill, but he answered, he had only bullets to exchange, which he proposed to
               swop, when they absconded.Esq. Green arrived and brought me my letters x x x. The Yankees have been to
               Conyersville and damaged Browning, Kennerly, Jim Coffman, Flem. Duncan, Dr. Bradly
               Mrs. Cherry. This is the first damage they have ever done in that vicinity. They have
               fared extremely well, so far. I fear they will visit Pa next.Greer's command (of Rebels) spent 4 days at Paris conscripting and recruited
               considerably while there. Adam's Co. (once Stocks,) is at home on furlough.Aug 30th SundayThe Yankees are talking all along the line. They wish to exchange papers and coffee
               for whiskey, more than anything else. The belong to the 17th Indiana. They will not
               answer any questions about the army.Recieved orders to make out muster Rolls for July & August, and I went into camp
               for that purpose. It is my first trial but I find no difficulty. Could not finish
               them by nightfall. The regt. will be mustered by Capt. McNeal of the 4th and the 4th
               by Capt. Caldwell tomorrow.Aug 31stFinished Rolls, and sent them in by Sergt. Thompson, but concluded not to go myself.
               Camp is very lonesome and looks deserted. The 19th is drilling in Battalion
               Drill.I helped to cook two days rations, which was no light job, While watching the beef
               boil after supper, I listened to the adjutant talk of funny & ludicrous scenes he
               had witnessed ere the war began. It was not devoid of interest.Sept. 1stArose rather early and began to prepare to return to the regt. orders were recieved
               to cook another day's rations and prepare to move. Arriving at the Picket post I
               learned that talking continued yesterday, but had been stopped by order this
               morning.also that two of Co. C. swam the river and got two papers. Leslie's Illustrated
               and an old daily. Neither contained news. The Illustrated has views of the
               bombardment of Charleston, and forts. The boys remained awhile on the other bank,
               talking and resting.Were relieved late in the evening by the 1st & 27 Tenn. and started about sundown
               to join the rest of the Brigade beyond Lookout, whither they had preceded us. After a
               warm and dusty walk of about 8 miles we arrived there between 10 and 11 P.M. and
               after some searching some time found space level and clear enough of rocks to sleep
               upon and spent the night there. We relieved Smiths Brigade.Sept. 2ndWe are on picket here I suppose or in reserve for Cavalry pickets, though I see no
               indications of it. Moved upon the edge of the mountain, and bivouacked among the
               rocks. Many of the boys are engaged in making marbles out of the limestone rocks,
               which they peck round with pieces of iron, and then smooth them by rolling them round
               in a hole made in a sand stone. They make almost as nice marbles as I ever saw. The
               place seems almost like a shop where tombstones are made.Sept. 3rdSpent the day making a finger ring out of a soft stone, which I intend to preserve as
               a memento of Lookout and this picketing. All is quiet in front. The Yankees are near
               Trenton. 18 miles off.Sept. 5thMost of the regt. was sent out on picket yesterday evening, but it being a detail I
               missed it. Rumors of an advance of the enemy keep us all in camp (or bivouac)Some few shots were exchanged by the batteries opposite town and ours. I witnessed it
               from the bluff.Martin Bevil (10th Con. Cav.) was drowned with 5 others in a wharfboat, which sunk
               while crossing a load over the river several days ago, and his brother in Co. I. is
               greatly affected by it. A man of the 24th killed himself accidentally day before
               yesterday.The regiment was relieved by the 19th on picket yesterday evening.Sept. 6th SundayThe enemy was said to be advancing, reports making the numbers range from 2 regiments
               to as many Divisions, and we recieved repeated orders to remain in camp. Capt.
               Peeples preached at 10 A.M. a good sermon, which was listened to attentively. I have
               not heard the result of the firing at C. or above near Harrison, yesterday.Sept. 7thWe were awakened by reveille before daylight and moved up the mountain and formed in
               line of battle, where we remained several hours when we again marched down the
               mountain and having been relieved by part of Smith's Brigade who arrived
               yesterday evening, and no enemy appearing, we returned to camp, marching up the
               railroad. Passed through Breckinridge's Division camp, and saw manystragglers from Cleburne's Division going towards Rome, whither the army is said
               to be moving. 4 Divisions are said to have arrived from Miss. Breckinridge's,
               Walker's, French's & McCown's. I think we are now strong enough
               for Rosy.When we arrived in camp found every thing packed ready for marching. What now? J.B.
               Jones, Color Sergt, arrived and looks finely. He is a brave boy.Cannonading commenced at town in the evening and continued rather heavily through the
               day. I know not the result. Most of the shells were directed at the Depot.Night came on without orders to move and after "Tattoo" we retired to
               rest, most all sleeping on the ground, without opening the blankets expecting to be
               soon aroused, but were not until "reveille" after daylight.Sept. 8thCannon is heard above town. Strict written orders were issued by Gen. Strahl
               regulating the march and about 9 A.M. we started taking the road south- ward. I think
               we intend to attack Rosencranz with most of the force while Buckner & Stewart
               hold Burnside in check.After many delays & Stoppages we made 8 miles by dark arriving at "Lee
               & Gordon's" Mills on Chickamauga and bivouacked. The road was almost
               shoe-mouth deep in dust and nearly suffocating. The country is very poor, the weather
               extremely warm.The other Brigades of the Division were arriving until midnight. Gen's Polk
               & Cheatham passed us during the day. The former expressed himself very hopefully
               to Jim Parker. Cannon was heard all day in the rear, or towards town rather.Sept. 9thNo move being made. Gov. Harris addressed a large crowd of the Division and said it
               was the intention yesterday to cross Look Out, but the enemy was reported crossing
               the mountain 12 miles off and that we would await him in this valley. That we were
               equal to him in numbers. Tennessee was at stake and he did not fear the result. He
               says we will fight in 4 days. He was interrupted by Strahl's "Assembly" call and we were moved into the woods where we spent the day awaiting
               orders.Jackson's Brigade of Georgians have been placed in our Division and never having
               been in a battle, I fear they will not improve our reputation for fighting any. Rumor
               of Yankee occupation of Chattanooga or skirmish at McFarland's Spring, Killing
               of Gen. Wheeler, wounding of Gen. Wharton etc reach us.Sept 10thWright's Brigade was on "Picket" yesterday and ours went out about a
               mile this morning, to where the 33rd Tenn. had been sent last night. Two day's
               rations were cooked last night. The army is in finer spirits and more hopeful of
               success than I have seen it for a long time. But still some few cowards are
               deserting. Diggs, Rose, Gwill & Haguewood of Co. A and Campbell of Co. K are all
               that the old 5th loses. None who desert now can be anything but cowards, and I am
               glad to see that everybody thinks so."Infirmary" & Ordnance Details have been made and I look for fighting
               soon. Many different rumors reach us still. Changed camp near night, but had not all
               retired before we were ordered to return to our camp of yesterday, and then to lie
               down and get all the rest we could in two hours.Sept. 11th SundayWe were allowed to sleep till near midnight, when we were aroused & put in motion
               towards LaFayette. Travelled slowly until some time after sunup, when we completed
               the 12 miles to L. in quick time. The Dust was about 6 inches deep and so thick in
               the air that I could not sometimes see the second file from me. Stopped at a spring
               before we reached town and washed and refreshed ourselves greatly. Cooked 3 days
               rations which occupied us till about midnight.A runaway team in Smith's Brigade last night killed a man and wounded 5 others.
               Crittenden's Corps is reported in our rear at Ringgold to cooperate with
               Burnside.Buckner's Corps with Stewart's Division is on the right and with
               Hill's Corps is said to be in the rear of Rosy. About 120 prisoners have been
               captured.I saw 60 of them in town as we came through. The spirits of the army improve and all
               are confident of victory. I was never more so but I do think the attack could have
               been made sooner. I look for the attack to be made day after tomorrow.Sept. 12thAbout 10 o'clock we took the road back through the dust & heat and reached
               Rock Spring Church near night, and were moved soon after out on the right of the
               Ringgold Road, near the Yankees and put out pickets. I see none but Cheatham's
               Division out here and think we are sent to keep off Crittenden's while Bragg
               whips Rosencranz.Our baggage has been left at LaFayette.Sept. 13th SundayAroused at daylight and moved further to the left and then still further and to the
               rear of the line. Soon we were sent to the immediate front on the Gordon's
               Mills' Road, and placed with the Battery on a rise near the road, with the 19th,
               31st and 33 on the right of it and the 24th and 4th & 5th on the left.Gen. Polk's order for the battle was read. Walker's Division formed the
               right, across the Ringgold road and Cheatham's the left, across the
               Gordon's Mill Road. Hindmans with all of the other two, not needed to cover the
               regiments space as reserve. The General speaks of what is at stake and calls upon us
               to meet the responsibility bravely.After some skirmishing between the Cavalry, Stanford's Battery opened and after
               several shots they were replied to andit was limbered up and we moved about a mile to the rear and took up a new position.
               After a delay and more skirmishing, the Battery opened again, was soon replied to,
               several shots passing near, one stopping in Capt. Bunch's Co. but being nearly
               spent all got out of the way.We fell back again about half a mile, but the Yanks keeping silent we returned to the
               second position and remained till night in peace. There was some little excitement
               when the first shells were fired at us, caused I suppose from our long absence from
               danger. No one seemed really frightened.About dark we fell back to our position as reserve and spent an extremely cool night,
               for the season.Sept. 14thAll expected to see the "Ball" open here or at LaFayette early this
               morning but instead, everything was as still as ever, and about nine o'clock
               we again took the road to LaFayette. It has been traveled until it is shoemouth deep
               in dust. We traveled most of the way on the graded railroad and through the fields.
               Arrived at L. about 3 o'clock P.M. finished cooking two days rations which the
               "Camp Rangers" had commenced.Almost plenty of shoes was issued and many a sorefooted fellow rejoiced. Gen. Hindman
               has been relieved or suspended for allowing 10 thousand Yanks to get away, which he
               had cut off on Friday (11th) night last. I am perfectly at a loss to guess what will
               be done next.Sept. 15thWhile everything was ready to start, orders came that perhaps we would not start
               today, and all must wash up, which was done with dispatch. I have never seen so much
               washing going on at once before. I am glad to see such a spirit of cleanliness
               existing.I went over to Stewart's Division to see Andrew and Ed. Duncan. They look as
               natural as ever. They seem to be in a good regt. (the 20th,) but are anxious to
               return to the 5th among old friends.Sept. 16thMoved camp nearer water, roasting ears, and sugar-cane. No rain yet but plenty of
               Dust & heat. A. and E.D. visited us and spent some hours in talking of old times
               and the future. x (sorghum likely)Sept. 17thEvery preparation is being made for a long march. Extra wagons are turned over, tents
               & flys also, knapsacks hauled, trunks left, every fifteenth man detailed as
               regular cooks, etc. etc. Bragg is said to have issued an order that he had offered
               battle to Rosy twice and he had refused it and now he would force him to it. Others
               say it says he has tried to flank us twice and failed and now he would be
               flanked.Troops have been moving on each side of us all day, northward and near night we
               started taking the road N.N.E. and after going about 8 miles stopped near midnight
               and slept by the side of the road. Before day it blew up cold and I slept
               unpleasantly.Sept. 18thMoved on to the Rock Spring Church and took up our old position of the 13th inst.
               where Gen. Bragg's Battle order was read. He says he has offered the enemy
               battle twice and he has refused it, but now having foiled him in his attempts to
               flank us he will force his main body to fight. He says we are heavily re-inforced and
               speaks confidently of victory. All are still in good spirits but still seem to feel
               some little dread at becoming targets.Lieut. Lemonds just from town says several men told him Longstreet was at Tunnell
               Hill & Ringgold. We moved on slowly in the direction of Gordon's Mills down
               the "Long Hollow" Road. Cannon is heard in front and I hear of several
               men being wounded.Sept. 19thAfter sunup we moved on slowly to the Chicamauga crossed it a mile below
               Gordon's Mill stacked arms, rested awhile and then double-quicked on in the
               direction of the fighting. Soon passed Hood's Div. of Longstreet's Corps.
               They say two others (Pickett's & McLaws) are or will be here. Hurrah for
               that. They are better dressed than we are by far soon met Cavalry filing to the rear
               and saw their wounded.After going a mile or two, we fronted and advanced in line of battle, stray shells
               and even minie balls began to fly over, one of the latter wounding Coley of Co. E.
               Halting in the woods we were again moved across a field under fire, on the other side
               we saw stragglers, and Gen Smith who cautioned us not to fire on his men.Without firing we were ordered back still under fire. W.C. Alexander of Co. A. Allen
               and Hagler of Co. I and Wilson of our Co. (D) were wounded and Lieut Webber of the
               4th killed. Again advancedacross the field and were fired on and again ordered back, while all were expecting
               to be allowed to fire. We lay down in the woods till about sundown when a heavy
               firing commenced on our right and we advanced to the edge of the field, and
               Churchill's & Maney's Brigades sent to the right. It continued heavy
               until nearly dark, when they were repulsed. But we lost the brave Brig. Gen. Preston
               Smith's.We placed out pickets, (Capt Wards Co.) stacked arms and bivouacked. The battle has
               not been general, but hot and stubborn, most of the time. The hottest firing has been
               to the left, towards Gordon's Mill, where Longstreet is. Nothing decisive
               yet.The 5th is not (as generals say) eager for the fray, that is a humbug, but willing
               and not afraid to fight. After the first excitement was over they acted coolly,and advanced better than retreated. But few have played out.Maj. Hampton is assigned to duty and acts gallantly. He is a fine officer. Col. Lamb
               is cool. All the officers are brave and men too. I expected I would be afraid but the
               firing soon brought on the old battle feeling and I heeded it not.Sept. 20th Sunday.Everything was still for some time after morning, but it soon began right and left,
               and shells began to fly over thick, some falling short, some going over and one
               striking Gid Comer of Co. I. on the back and inflicting a mortal wound. He was a
               clever boy, a brave soldier and liked by all. He was borne away and lived long enough
               to say he would die but he would be better off.We lay there an hour or two under the shells, the regiment standing it nobly,
               remaining in line all the time.The enemy was driven back and we moved to the right and front and were halted
               again.Late in the evening we were moved forward and Gen. Cheatham taking command of
               Wright's Brigade and this one giving the commands himself. I expected to see it,
               but instead Wright's moved on and we halted. It lasted but a little while.Longstreet has pressed them on the left and under the combined attack they fled from
               their breastworks, leaving their artillery and many prisoners behind. A glorious
               shout went up along the whole line announcing the victory. Several generals collected
               in front of us and listened intently. Gen. Polk seemed to enjoy it extremely.While the fighting was going on we moved up a little and I never saw troops move so
               well in the woods. When silence rerigned we laid ourselves down to sleep. Rosy is now
               certainly defeated andis moving off while not near all of our troops have been engaged. Those who have been
               over the battlefield somewhat do not think that the loss of life has been great.It is said we have captured 30 pieces of Artillery and 15 thousand prisoners. We have
               been greatly in want of water, which had to be brought from the Chicamauga, two or
               three miles off. I have had but little chance to observe much in the whole
               battle.Gen's Hood, Helm, Adams, and Churchill are said to be among the killed and
               wounded Lt. Col. Finley arrived late in the evening and is assigned to duty in the
               regiment. (Note) Though under fire so much we did not get to fire a gun.Sept 21stMoved out and formed line of battle near the Chattanooga & LaFayette Road.
               Skirmishers were thrown out and I expected to be soon engaged, but they advanced 3 or
               4 miles finding only stragglers and hospital details and wounded. Everything was as
               still as the calm after a storm, until evening when cannon were heard in the
               direction of Chattanooga, which is about 8 miles off. Two yankee hospitals are near
               us, for the 2 Div. Army Corps and 3rd Div. Army Corps.The Yankees taken early in the battle said "Wait till it is over," but
               those we see now are loth to talk and look dispirited. This is the only battle that I
               have ever fought in that we have held the battlefield and it does me good to march
               across it, northward. Rosy has withdrawn to Chattanooga.An hour or two by sun we were put in motion and moved several miles down Chicamauga
               valley and bivouacked for the night. The citizens say the enemy commenced passing
               about dark and ceased before midnight. They seemed glad to see us return. The enemy
               have not spared them.The boys have thrown down their old muskets and picked up rifles, mostly Enfields.
               and with about 8 or 10 exceptions the regiment have all Rifles. The boys declare they
               will never give them up again. It has been difficult to obtain Enfield cartridges for
               them.Sept. 22ndMoved up to the foot of Missionary Ridge and halted most of the day for Maney's
               Brigade to drive them from the top and for the Cavalry to cross and clear a way at
               the foot. Halting awhile near the top I took a look but could see only a great dust
               around town and over the river and what looked like a pontoon with wagons. Those with
               a glass said there were three pontoons crossing wagons and Cavalry fording.Entering Chattanooga valley we formed line of battle near Manigault's old camp
               with Smith and Wright to the right and Maney and Jackson to the left of us.
               Peagram's Cavalry skirmishing a little, to the right of us. After placing
               pickets we retired to rest. Our Co. was placed out to the left and soon relieved by
               Maney's occupying the position to the pleasure of all.Sept. 23rdThe balance of our Corps crossed over, also Hill's. Longstreet has driven the
               enemy across Chattanooga Creek at the bridge near the Old tan-yard and has his
               pickets at Cheatham's old Hdqrs. on the LaFayette Road, two miles from town.The slight wounded shocked, bruised, lost etc, have come up. The wagons have moved up
               to Chicamauga, and one wagon being here with rations, our knapsacks had to be left
               and will I fear be lost.Roasted and eat potatoes from a patch near by, rested, slept, etc. till near night,
               when we were moved to the right, and forward half a mile or so, and formed a new
               line. Much talk and speculation about changing our own works, passed round, some
               fearing it and some few going so far as to declare they would not. I see no use for
               this and shall await events .Sept. 24thThe enemy's cannon firing at Longstreets men awaked us at dawn, but it soon
               ceased, everything remained quiet until late in the evening, when the pickets raising
               a fuss, and the enemy commenced shelling in every direction, so suddenly that it
               nearly scared us boys out of our wits. A stray "minie" struck Sergt.
               Brevard in the breast, partly burying itself after passing through his clothes. We
               were called to attention and moved off bythe right flank to the rear. Halted in a field near the base of the Ridge for
               Walker's Division to move up to the top. Pieces of shells flew all around us
               making a noise like a "Spinning wheel" but the sun was shining just right
               for us to see and dodge them.Moved up the side of the hill and formed on its slope. We had hardly retired to sleep
               before heavy skirmishing between the pickets awakened us, which continued for half an
               hour or so, artillery being added, but no damage done.The Yankees were driven back some distance. All then remained still till morning. The
               enemy has connected our forts with each other and the river with rifle pits and cut
               down timber in front, so I see no hope of getting them out by fighting, without great
               loss.Flanking seems impossible to fall back would be to give up the fruits of the victory.
               What will be done.Sept 26thEverything has been quiet, most of yesterday and today. One regiment of the Brigade
               is kept on picket in front. A breastwork of rails, logs, and rocks, has been thrown
               up along the foot of the "Ridge" and the ridge lined with artillery. The
               wagon train has moved up to within 3 or 4 miles of us. I hear that about 500 men are
               engaged building pontoons above here.Sept. 27th Sunday.Baggage is being reduced, knapsacks no longer hauled, wagons & cooking utensils
               being turned over. The latter reduced to just enough for two men from each Co. to
               cook with. Had inspection at 9. The Rev. Mr. Swoorer has been appointed Chaplain of
               the 4th and preached at Gen Strahl's Hdqrs. It was a regular city Episcopal sermon and will not take in camp at all.The regt. was sent on Picket at 4 P.M. The "videttes" are within half a
               mile of their works and we could see their movements plainly.Sept. 28thAll was silent while our picket duty lasted. We were relieved by the 19th at 10 A.M.
               Charlie Kennerly arrived from Henry and says all are well at home but brings no
               letters. The yankees have left Fort Heiman. None are stationed nearer than Union
               City.They killed Carter Foster and 3 others near Conyersville after they had surrendered.
               Accusing them of being guerrillas. I am sorry that that has become somewhat neutral
               ground.Sept. 30thGen. Polk is said to be relieved, because he failed to bring on the attack at
               daylight on Sunday morning at Chicamauga. I am sorry for I like him better than all
               our generals. We took 7,000 prisoners, 30,000 stand of small arms and 37 pieces of
               artillery at the battle of Chicamauga. All has been quiet in front for two days. All
               the yankee wounded have been sent into Chattanooga.A man in the 27th Tennessee who had deserted has been found among the prisoners and
               shot. All the cooks but two to the Co. have been sent in. They will see hard times
               certain.Lieut. Milam is preparing to go to West Tenn. I write by him. x x x.Oct. 1stIt rained slowly last night and today it has hardly ever ceased to fall and many a
               poor rebel has spent the day miserably, lying under a stretched blanket or standing
               around a fire. I pitied the 24th as it filed away through the mud & rain to the
               picket post. It is reported that Gen. Forrest is under arrest.Oct. 3rdWent on picket yesterday and was relieved this morning at 10 A.M. by the 19th. Soon
               after returning and just as we had refixed, we were moved to the right and placed in
               reserve in rear of Smith's Brigade. All is quiet in front. The hills around
               Chattanooga are lined with tents and such a noise of drums as is heard every morning
               is equal to Bedlam.Oct. 4th Sunday.The guns were shot off yesterday and Inspection had this morning and afterwards the
               color-line cleared. We have a nice line of stacks now. No rusty muskets
               intermingled.The "Association" met at 10 A.M. and excluded a member or two. The
               propriety of excluding deserters was discussed lengthily, but not decided. The
               Chaplain of the 4th preached at 4 P.M.Rations now are rather short and as we have nothing to think about, but eating, our
               desires are far from being satisfied. Grated corn bread and parched corn are called
               in use to supply the want. The hills and valleys around town are covered with Yankee
               tents and lined with men.Everything is quiet at Charleston, but I fear it will yet fall. The cars are running
               to Chicamauga Depot.Oct. 5thAbout 10 o'clock our batteries commenced feeling of the yankees with cannon
               and erelong guns were firing from points of "the Ridge," point of Lookout
               and small hills in the valley. Lookout point seemed to be covered with batteries. The
               firing continued until night. The enemy replied for awhile but soon quit.Several of our shells fell within their works. None of theirs reached us, (that I
               know of.) I went up to the Signal Corps, where I had a fine view, but the firing was
               too slow to make a grand sight.Oct. 6thThe regiments of the Brigade take it by turn going out to the wagons to wash and this
               was our day. I was surprised to see how fast the cooking could be done, with system
               and and preparation. Two daysrations in two or three hours. I read Gen. Polks "Farewell Address". It
               is a patriotic and talented address. The whole Corps regret to lose him. He is
               beloved by all.Wilburn of the "Pioneer Corps" says that trestle for a bridge is being
               moved down to the River above here.Oct. 7thWent out 2 or 3 miles on a foraging expedition, getting only some corn to grate. This
               is certainly brought to an extremety. It rained last night and it is a little cooler
               today.The enemy threw a few shells at our men at work planting a battery on a hill in a
               half or 3/4th of a mile of Fort Wright. Lieut. Elliott of our Co. has resigned and
               his resignation was accepted on the 14th of Sept.Oct. 8thQuiet in comparison with Perryville a year ago. Rumors of Wheeler's occupation
               of McMinnville and destruction of 500 wagons captured near Bridgeport are afloat. The
               33rd Tenn. has been reduced to a Battalion and Lt. Col. placed in command. Col. Jones
               being relieved.Oct. 9thThe "Rebel" says 3 or 4 Corps are being sent from Meade to Rosencrans.
               Nothing is doing here. The River is rising and injuring the enemy's bridges. The
               31st has been reduced to a Battalion and Col. Tansill relieved. It is said that
               President Davis arrived at Chicamauga late this evening.Oct. 10thJeff Davis passed along the lines today and the troops were formed in line to recieve
               him. I had a good look at him and found him better looking than I had expected. He
               was dressed in citizens black. Three cheers were given for him and also Gen. Bragg,
               who accompanied him, Cheatham and others were along.Col. Lamb ordered an election for Jr. 2nd Lieut. S.D. Wilson, J.W. Pillow and myself
               were the candidates. The 1st Ballot stood Wilson 3, Pillow 6, myself 8. No choice 2nd
               Ballot. Pillow 8 myself 10. So I was elected. Phillip Kennerly was made Orderly,
               Beckwith 3rd Sergt, C.W. Cherry & H.M. Murrell, Corporals. The excitement of the
               election created occupation and amusement for one evening. The 31st & 33rd Regts
               are on picket.Oct. 11th Sunday.The new Examining Board, (Col's Walker, Wilson & Lamb) met this morning,
               which caused me to betake myself to Hardee; but it adjourned till tomorrow, on
               account of its being Sunday. Parson Butts preached at 11 A.M.Oct. 12thAfter Capt. Bunch was summoned before the Board and with beating heart I attended,
               but one good look at Col. Walker (The President) reassured me completely and I
               answered all his questions but one. He turned me over to Col. Wilson with this
               compliment-- "I find him very bright in everything I examined him on." I
               answered Col. Wilson's two questions. Col. Lamb had nothing to ask. I do not
               fear the result. Lemonds & Wynns Co. I. & Crawford Co. C. were also
               examined.Oct. 13thI accompanied the 1st Tenn. Band to Gen. Bragg's Hdqrs to serenade the
               President. He responded making four points, returning thanks for call, Eulogizing
               Tennesseans, Giving Privates their just need of praise and expressing a hope of early
               important successes.Gen. Bragg was called. He praised Tenn soldiers & citizens; hoped soon to redeem
               the State and claimed the call as a proof of the soldier's trust in their
               leaders. Pemberton was there and called upon. He had never made a speech,
               wouldn't now. We had done well, continue to do so.Capt. Cooper & ex-Capt Fowler arrived from Henry. Say Col. Greer has a company of
               Cavalry from Henry and other counties.and has sent for arms. No news from home. I hear of several marriages of
               acquaintances. The rain has continued to fall all day.Oct. 14thWent with the regiment to relieve the picket of Jackson's Brigade in about half
               a mile of Fort Wright. We were well moistened by the time we arrived. The reserve was
               posted right on the line, in some houses while it rains. There was some little
               cessation in the rain and most of us got dry.The sentinels are in plain view in "The Fort". No communication is
               allowed with the enemy. Capt. Kendall arrived last night and has orders from Gen.
               Strahl to take command of the company, which I am glad to hear.The President has promoted Col. Vaughan (13th Tenn) to Brigadier. He commands
               Smith's old Brigade. Jackson is commanding this Division.Oct. 15thI stood five long hours in a drenching rain last night and made half a dozen trips in
               mud and water ankle deep to post the videetes. The rain was cold as ice and I never
               spent a more miserable time. I slept only an hour or two. We were relieved about 8 or
               9. It still continued to rain through the day.When we got back to camp everything was wet and many had to lie down at night on the
               damp ground and under wet blankets. The bridge over Chicamauga washed away and the
               rations have to be brought over on the reilroad bridgeRumors are rife of Wheeler's operations in Middle Tenn at Shelbyville &
               McMinnville. A quantity of Commissaries is said to have been destroyed at
               Shelbyville.Oct. 17thNo rain yesterday. Today is a fine sunshiny day. Capt. Kendall took command of the
               Co. Capt. Peeples is ordered to report for duty at Ringgold. I am sorry to see him
               leave, he is so good a man.President Davis' Address was read on Dress Parade. It contains just what such a
               document might be expected to contain. He entreats us to be obedient and
               harmonious.A few shells were thrown from Hog Mountain at our Batteries on Look Out, late in the
               evening. I have not heard the result.Gen. Strahl's Staff are Capt. J.W. Johnston A.A.G. Lieut Dupree A.D.C. Maj. H.R.
               McSwine A.Q.M. Maj. Cromwell A.C.S. Lieut Chapman A.I.G. Lieut Winston Chief of
               Ordnance. Lieut J.T. Doyle Provost Marshall.Oct. 18th SundayGen. Bragg issued an order stating that he will give a furlough for 40 days to any
               soldier who will furnish a recruit before he gets it. A perfect humbug.Oct. 19thAn order at Dress Parade confirms Maj. Bunch, Lieut's Lemonds, Wynns Crawford
               and myself. Maj. Bunch and Lieut's. Howard & Neel are relieved from duty and
               ordered to report to Gen. Strahl. Lieut Crawford is assigned to duty as 2nd Lieut.
               Co's A. & C. Lemonds 1st Lieut. and Wynns and myself as 2nd Lieuts Co's
               D. & I. I wish this had been postponed until I could have drawn some clothes, for
               it will now be almost impossible for me to get them.Oct. 20thMaj. Bunch was serenaded last night and called out but he declined speaking. The
               regiment went to the wagon train to wash, but having none to do, I declined
               going.Oct. 22ndThe regiment went on picket. Relieved the 8th Miss. The enemy commenced shelling just
               before sundown. Some of the shells passed over scaring us at first greatly.Two of the 4th deserted in the evening and went over to the enemy. Soon after sundown
               three others left their posts and went over. Some thought that caused the shelling.
               Some of them had been punished for exchanging papers contrary to orders. Men of
               little principle certainly, thus to change sides. Shelling ceased at dark.Oct. 23rdEnemy commenced shelling again as the "3rd Relief" was going on at 1 o'clock A.M. arousing us out of our slumbers. It continued at intervals of half
               an hour until daylight. Several guns would be fired at once and then such a whizzing
               of shells. Most of them seemed to be aimed at the camps at the foot of the "Ridge" and fell among the camps there.Notice came that the Brigade had moving orders. Were soon relieved by 8th Miss.
               Arrived at camp & found the Division in motion.Drew rations and just before day took the railroad, passed through the "Tunnell." Halted soon, in the rain, but again moved out to Tyner's Station in the
               rainand mud. Reported we are going to Charleston Tenn to reinforceStevenson's Division. Capt. J.K. Hope is Post Commissary here. None but our
               Division moving. Hear rumors of a Skirmish at Sweetwater and capture of 500
               prisoners, 70 wagons and 10 ambulances.Oct. 24thStopped raining and turned cold during the night and we like to have frozen. Aroused
               at daylight and moved to the Depot. All of the Brigade left on train but part of the
               24th and the 4th & 5th. Ordered back to the fires and remained during the day and
               a cold one it was.Drew only 9 crackers for two days which will barely keep us alive. Hope had to keep a
               strong guard at the Commissary to keep the 19th from charging his rations. A car load
               of ordnance was freely taken by all the soldiers who could get at it and part of it
               was wantonly destroyed.Oct. 25th SundayGot on the train early and had a cold trip to Charleston in open box cars. Arrived
               about 12 o'clock and bivouacked in the woods. Stevenson's Division has
               preceded us towards Loudon. This is but a poor looking place. Old and rotting down
               almost. The bridge over the Hiwassee here was burned by our forces when retreating
               and a pontoon has to be used in crossing. One wagon with the cooking utensils has
               come on.Oct. 26thThe boys are foraging and all have enough to eat once more. Near night we moved down
               to the river and after waiting a long time, we crossed on a little pontoon
               foot-plank. A burlesque on pontoons. Many crossed on small boats. Calhoun opposite C.
               is a nicer place. Stopped just beyond and bivouacked.Oct 27thWright's Brigade is left at Charleston Gen. W. Commanding the Post. All the
               Barefooted were sent back to Charleston. Aroused at day-light and put in motion on
               the railroad. It rained some and made it very slippery traveling. Arrived at Athens
               about 4 P.M. It is a nice place.The country is better than I expected. Some of the people are secesh and one white
               hand kerchief was displayed in town. Went out foraging, with Lieut. Wynns and secured
               some apples and potatoes. The former was a treat indeed.Many have procured sorghum in the country. The country is well supplied with this
               article. The people are tolerably accommodating around here.Lieut Wilson of Co. A. sports another bar, making three. (Captains)Oct. 28thStarted at daylight, passed mouse Creek (Depot) 6 miles and stopped 2 miles further
               on. Gen. Riggins who preferred having his rails burnt to having his grove ruined. So
               his fence was soon down and piled up, but we moved back a little and camped. Still
               some rain and roads slippery.Oct. 29thDrew some fine rations of beef, captured from the yankees, but no bread. Started at 9
               and moved on to beyond Sweetwater and camped in a nice grove. Strict rules about
               straggling this morning. Sweetwater is a nice little town.Inspection in the evening. I felt very green without a gun. It is rumored that Loudon
               is evacuated by the enemy and occupied by our troops.Oct 30thMaj. Bunch and Lieut Howard who have been to Loudon confirm its occupation by Gen.
               Stevenson. The enemy is still opposite. Stevenson's Division is small and
               straggling greatly. Rumor says the enemy has attacked Longstreet at the foot of
               Lookout Mt. but he repulsed them, capturing 700 prisoners.A rainy, rainy day. Spent it standing around the Bivouac fire. Tis my 24th birthday.
               How unlike the last, when I recieved a furlough.Oct. 31stCeased raining and turned cold last night, causing me to sleep very badly. Today is
               windy and so smoky that I can hardly see and my eyes are almost put out.
               Longstreet's fight is confirmed. Thomas has superseded Rosencrans. Grant
               commands the whole Western Department.Nov 1st SundayInspection at 9 o'clock. Preaching by Rev. Mr. Swarer and Rev Mr Keller at 10
               & 11 A.M. Kellar is said to have preached a fine sermon. Could not attend. Had to
               assist in making out Muster Rolls. It is the most silent Sabbath I have seen in a
               long time. The sweet-sounding Church-bells are almost all that can be heard. Chaplain
               Hearn preached at 1 P.M., not a good sermon by any means.We are getting no bacon but plenty of flour and excellent beef. All Non Commissioned
               Staff officers are to be dismounted which is a good plan certainly.Nov 2ndThe wagons and band arrived in the evening.Nov 2nd (cont)Lieut Patton mustered us at 8 A.M. moved about a quarter of a mile where we could get
               plenty of wood. The whistling of the cars after sundown was greeted by the Rebels
               with many cheers. The bridge at Charleston is finished.Gen. Jackson's orders say plundering must be stopped. Prescribes Roll Calls,
               Drills, Polices, etc. etc. as remedies, commencing with a caption as long as the
               Litany. He is not at all liked.Nov 3rdBrigade Drill in the morning and Company in the evening, I felt still greener without
               a gun. The weather has turned warm and is quite pleasant. A lot of stragglers were
               put to work on the "color-line."Nov. 4thBattalion Drill at 9. In some things we were as good as usual, but in others, not
               near as good. The barefooted arrived from Charleston, also Newport & Jim Kennerly
               from the hospital. We have not one of the Co. at the hospital now.The Battery is ordered back and preparations are being made for us to go. No Drill in
               the evening, but all are ordered to wash.I witnessed the disgusting scene of a negro and white man fighting. The negro getting
               the best. I was not near enough to interfere. Others stood by and made no efforts to
               protect the soldier.Rumors of Bragg's retreating are rife, but I do not credit them. I had rather go
               anywhere than back to the Ridge.Nov. 5thAnother rainy day. Maney's and Vaughn's Brigades moved down to the Depot at
               daylight and most of them took passage on the cars. Most of the baggage wagons left
               this morning.Sergt. J.E. Flack of Co. I. was elected 2nd Lieut. yesterday evening. A good
               selection. Hurrah for Orderlies. He is the fourth one elected in the regiment. Julian
               Frazier was elected 1st Sergt and S.B. Cox and T.J. Patterson other sergt's in
               Co I.Stevenson's Division is here on its way to Chattanooga. Great dissatisfaction
               exists about going back to the waste around C. and I fear some will fail to go. It is
               said Longstreet's Corps will relieve us.At night the Provost Guard was placed around the 19th to prevent desertion, but that
               will prove a perfect humbug.Nov. 6thReveille at 4 1/2 A.M. Formed at daylight. Waited at the Depot an hour or so, but no
               trains came and we marched back to camp. It is said a train has run off the track. 20
               of the 19th left last night and several of the 33rd Hagler Co I. W.H. Allen Stubbs
               & May of Co. F. are missing.Went to Depot at sundown and found part of McLaws' Div. Longstreet's Corps
               there. They give a deplorable account of the ennui and semi-starvation around C.
               Returned again to camp.Briant's Brigade camped near and a war of music was kept up a long time between
               the Band of the 51st Ga. and ours. McNeilly & Childress of Co. E. left at
               night.Nov. 7thAgain marched to Depot at daylight and this time really left on the cars. All the
               Brigade except the 31st and 33rd. Co's of the 4th on the 2nd train. It was awful
               cold and being on top I almost froze. Had a very good trip most of the way.Seeing more white hand kerchiefs by far than I expected. About 3 o'clock P.M.
               the 5 rear cars, (containing 5th and 2 Co's of 4th) ran off the track. Many
               jumped off before it was stopped. Several of those from the top were slightly
               injured. The rest of the train went on to Etowah (2 1/2 miles) and then the Engine
               came back for us.All the Field officers being on the next train Capt. Caldwell took command. By a
               little after dark 4 of the cars were put on the track again and we moved on slowly to
               Etowah and spent the night there in the cold, sometimes on the cars and sometimes by
               the fires.Nov 8th SundayLongstreets men are killing hogs, chickens and everything else that can be eaten
               around here, and the citizens bless them well, over the left. Soon after sunup we
               started again, but had gone only 2 miles when the Locomotive ran off and then we took
               it afoot to the East foot of Mission Ridge and halted about 12 o clock. In the
               evening the rest of the Brigade arrived. The road is lined from Cleveland here with
               Longstreet's men. (Stragglers)It is said that Cheatham's Division is broken up and that this Brigade goes to
               Gen. Stewart's. This is done to mix troops of different States and prevent State
               prejudice, it is said.Gen. Polk is restored to command. Gen. Hill has returned to Va. The Yankees have
               possession of Raccoon Mountain and Wills Valley.Nov. 9thAfter 12 we moved to Gen Stewart's Div. I entered Chattanooga valley with just
               such feelings as I would enter Camp Chase. The wind blew cold. Most of the trees were
               cut and we were set down in an open place without shelter or wood. To add to this we
               heard that no more meat would be issued, but that an ounce of sugar per day in lieu.
               The Rebels freely vented their feelings and made their threats. I fear this is to be
               the Valley Forge of the War.Nov 10thA cold morning succeeded a cold night, but it warmed ere even came. An encampment is
               laid off and cleared. A fly to each Co. Pants, shirts & drawers were issued and a
               ration of dry bread and sugar.Nov. 11thVaughn's Brigade has been exchanged for Walthall's of Anderson's Div
               and ours is in place of Johnson's. His is sent to _____________. Gov. Harris
               says that it is the President's orders to break up State Divisions, to keep down
               State prejudices.Cheatham's Div. consists of 2 Tenn. Brigades (Maney's & Wright's)
               one Miss. (Walthal's) and one Ga. (Jackson's). Poor Tenn! The Division that
               has so long spoken for her can speak for her no more. Who will? Gen. Cheatham has
               asked to be relieved from command here.Wood is an object here and none hardly can be found in half a mile. The weather which
               has been cold for several days and nights has moderated some. Capt. or Maj. is
               ordered to report for duty at Chicamauga Station.Nov.12thLog Cabins are rising all around as if by magic, and all will be soon comfortably
               quartered. The Lookout and Moccasin Point Batteries exchange shots occasionally.
               Fatigue Parties are engaged throwing up a fort (at night) in about a mile of the
               "Star Fort" (Fort Cheatham). I have applied for a 5 days furlough to
               visit Atlanta to get clothes.Nov 13thAll the Divisions are being turned Topsy-turvy by the exchange of Brigades from one
               to another, and soon no one but Gen. Bragg will know anything of the organizations of
               other troops than those directly around him. Look Out Batteries continue to throw
               shells at the enemy.Lieut Sidebottom and Sergt Flack have been examined for promotion. Lieut. S. is sent
               to Chicamauga to arm and forward convalescents to the Division.Nov. 14thMost of the regt. is on picket today. Cabin-building progresses slowly for want of
               wagons to haul the logs & boards. Capt Ray (A.Q.M.) is relieved and assigned to
               duty as A.Q.M. of the Div. Artillery. Capt. Campbell (A.Q.M. of 4th) attends to his
               duties.Nov 15th Sunday.The Pickets say they stood in 150 yards of the Yankee pickets and in full sight of
               Fort Cheatham. The Rev. Kelly preached at 10 A.M. Swarar at 3 P.M. and McDonald at 4.
               I heard part of the two last and all of the former. He (K) is a talented man and made
               a good preach.Nov. 17thSoon after daylight a brisk or furious cannonade commenced on the right. The enemy
               had built winter quarters near the river and unwittingly cut away the timber in
               front. They were completely surprised and fled, leaving everything to escape the
               grape & canister. Lieut Sidebottom's and Sergt. Flack's promotions are
               announced.Nov. 18thWent on picket at 6 o clock A.M. Luckily got on 5th Relief and had but little to
               stand in the night. Gen's. Breckinridge & Cleburne and others inspected the
               lines during the day. Most of the men had to work on the rifle-pits 2 1/2 hours
               during the night, but I escaped that. The Yankee pickets on part of the line is
               within 100yards of ours, but very peaceable.They were plainly visible working on their fortifications, within a quarter of a
               mile. How different from this day of last year. The I arrived home and enjoyed the
               day with gladdened relatives.Nov 17thWere relieved at 8 A.M. and returned joyfully to camp. N.C. Howard is elected 2nd
               Lieut of Co. A. A very good selection. Capt. Ward's Co's G & K. are
               detached to guard Division Wagon Train.The building of quarters is nearly completed and the place which two weeks ago was
               perfectly open now presents the appearance of a thriving village.Nov 20thMy furlough is approved for five days and I am preparing to be off. Went out to Maj.
               McShine's and drew 20 day's pay to Nov 1st. Returned late in the evening
               through the rain.Nov. 21stIt is raining and this low country is most all submerged. When it stopped mud to any
               amount succeeds. When I waked the water was running through the cabin, the boys
               having neglected to ditch round it, but being on a "lump" I escaped a
               moistening.I have asked the Col. to relieve me, but he declines doing so because the officers of
               the Co. are equally divided between D and I. Buckner's Division left last night
               in the direction of LaFayette. The Yanks are reported to be flanking us on the
               left.Nov 22nd SundayBuckner's Division returned from McLemore's Cove last night and this
               morning. They are ordered to the Depot to take the cars.Lieut. Andrews (Co. K.) has a leave of Absence and will accompany me. Walked out to
               the wagon train to meet him. Found him waiting. Walked on to Chicamauga Creek. Found
               it very high. Had to cross it partly on a pontoon a canoe and a trestle. Arrived at
               the station, found B's Div. there and heard rumors of pressing the passenger
               train. But at 5 1/2 P.M. after getting passport, started in a crowded car.Gen's. Buckner & Gracie and their staffs occupied one Coach. The crowding
               was increased by filling the aisle with negroes at Cartersville and I was prevented
               from sleeping, but little.Nov. 23rdArrived at Atlanta just before daylight. Went to the Trout House, deposited baggage,
               rubbed my face with muddy water and paid 3 dollars for an indifferent breakfast. Met
               an old friend and namesake in the "Appeal Office". Deposited my sword at
               the Factory for mending.xSpent the day looking around and enquiring prices. Expected to find everything high,
               but find them higher! Saw Capt. Swor and Lieut. Adams in the evening. Neither look
               well. Took dinner at the Trout, and then moved to Mrs. Hoyle's a cheaper place
               and a nicer one. Price 8 dollars per day.Lieut Andrews left for Augusta at 7 o'clock. I think Atlanta lacks much of
               being the prettiest inland city in the South. It is nothing but a den of filthy
               Swindlers.x Belt likely.Nov. 24thSpent most of the day making my purchases, which was not easily accomplished. Went
               out to the military Prison to see Lt. B.G. Curd. He looks finely.The rumor of a fight at Chattanooga yesterday has reached here. I do not credit it.
               It is said Longstreet has driven the pickets in at Knoxville and cut off
               communication with Cumberland Gap. The 46th Tenn. arrived at sundown and I saw all my
               old acquaintances. They look well and say they have been faring finely at Mobile.
               They will find it different at Chattanooga.Col. Dawson has been dropped for absence without leave & Lt. Col. R.A. Owens is
               now C. & Maj. J.D. Wilson Lt. Col. Capt. S.C. Cooper Maj. and Lt. Pleas. Hope
               Capt Co. D.Nov. 25thRumors of a hard fight at the front yesterday, and reported repulse of Bragg. The
               wounded of day before have arrived and confirm the driving our pickets in, and
               capture of two small hills in our front. Gen. Braggs telegram to Gen. Cooper, says
               the enemy made an ineffectual attempt to take Look Out. The 24th & 28th Ala. is
               said to have defended it to the last.Nov. 26thAttended the Theator last night but there was so small an audience that there was no
               performance. Miss Kemble sang a patriotic song and our money was paid back. The
               Manager thought most everybody was gone to the front. I doubt it. The first news that
               greets me this morning is that Bragg has fallen back toChicamauga. The papers have Bragg's Dispatch to Gen. Cooper confirming it. He
               says his left fell back in disorder. Oh! what a situation. Southern troops running
               from such a position as that. I await to see for myself. I met Col. J.D. Atkins on
               the street and he would say nothing of the future. He is looking despondent
               indeed.Nov. 27thLeft Atlanta last night at 8 P.M. in a crowded car, and with a vulgar drunken crowd.
               At Kingston the down train reported Bragg falling back to Dalton. I do not believe
               it. Arrived at D. just before day having passed a cold, sleepless night, and was
               informed that the train would go no further until further orders.The Hos-pitals are filled with wounded. All from the front report that the enemy's
               advance was in overwhelming numbers, and irresistable and worse that some of our
               troops acted shamefully. Going up in town I was ordered to report to the Camp of
               Instruction. I went out there and awaited the coming of the Division.The wagons commenced passing about an hour by the sun and about twelve the troops
               came on, and such disorder! discipline seems gone and a regiment cannot be told from
               a division. It makes me sick at heart. I must stop writing.Dick Curd passed late in the evening and I went out and spent the night, getting wet
               (as it rained) and took a chill.Nov. 28thMorning found it raining which continued till noon. I heard of the Division and
               started to it in the evening. Arriving there I found my worst fears realized. Only
               four of Co. D. was there. Beckwith, Cox & Miller. Capt. Kendall is severely
               wounded and a prisoner. But little account can be given of the others.The regiment was formed at the foot of the "Ridge", as Reserve for the
               skirmishers of the Division, and though attacked by 3 lines, was kept there after the
               skirmishers fell back and had to retreat up the hill under a scorching fire and many
               failed to climb it. Twelve of Co. I is here. Lt. Wynns is a prisoner. Capt. Foust,
               Sergt. Moffitt & P. Kennedy are killed. Capt. Wilson is wounded. Sergt. Totty
               also Mareus Milam is wounded. Lieut. Jordan is wounded and a prisoner.Lt. Col. Moore (19th Tenn) was killed - on his father'sland. He refused to be moved wishing to die at home. Oh! noble death. The 5th went
               into the battle with 119 (Cos G & K not engaged) and lost in killed wounded and
               missing 60. It has recieved the praise of all who witnessed its fighting. The Brigade
               fought well. All of Cheatham's men did nobly. They clamor loudly to be under him
               again with Tennesseans.Nov. 29th SundayHaving no blankets of my own last night I slept coldly. Moved during the day to a
               position more protected from the wind. The capture of Burnside and most of his army by Longstreet is confirmed.x This will
               lghten the disaster at the Ridge a great deal. The wagons have been ordered back to
               Dalton and I think a stand will be made here. Cleburne gave the enemy a blow at
               Ringgold on the 27th.(x See notice on Dec 6th)Nov 30thIce froze 3/4 of an inch thick last night in a bucket. Spent the day trying to keep
               warm around the fire. Lieut Flack was ordered to report to Gen. Pillow and left just
               before the battle. Jim Kennerly and Bob Bell reenforced us during the day. Some of
               the boys say that "Bull Run" was rivaled at the "Ridge".
               Stragglers are still moving. Some say we lost 50 pieces of Artillery.Dec. 1stIt is said the enemy has fallen back from Ringgold. Had Inspection at 10 A.M. How
               small the Co. looks. It hurts me to look at it.Dec. 2ndMoved camp about a mile - nearer Dalton. The weather has moderated. Fixed up the
               Muster-Rolls for signing. It is said Gen. Hardee is in command of the army.Dec. 4thMoved about a mile again across the railroad and nearer town to a better camping
               place and nearer wood.Dec. 5thHad Inspection at 12 by Gen. Strahl a very rigid one. Gen. Bragg's farewell
               address and Gen. Hardee's opening one were read at Dress Parade. Gen. B. says
               after asking repeatedly of the President to be relieved he has at last succeeded. I
               think for one we are losing as good an officer as we can ever get, but having lost
               the confidence of the army it is noble in him to retire and certainly best. He asks
               us to give Gen. Hardee our confidence and eulogises him. Gen. H. returns the same and
               asks our cordial support.Dec. 6th Sunday.Another general Inspection by Co. commanders, and inspection of morning and Ordnance
               reports by Gen. Strahl, assisted by his A.I.G. and Chief of Ordnance Parson Norton
               once Principal of Spring Hill Academy and just appointed Chaplain of the 19th Tenn.
               preached about 12 o clock. Camps cleaned out in the evening.Dec. 10thEverything is dull in camp. It is reported Longstreet instead of capturing Burnside
               has raised the seige and is retreating towards Va. before re-enforcements from Grant.
               Also that Joe Johnston is to command this army with Bragg as Chief of Staff. I do not
               credit it much though most every one does.Dec. 12thIt is rumored that Longstreet is moving this way, also that most of Grant's
               forces have gone to Knoxville, and to meet Forrest in West Tenn. and the balance
               fallen back to Chattanooga. Col. Howard has been examined at last.Two Lieut's of the 4th Florida captured at the Ridge have escaped and say the
               officers were separated from the men at C. and started to Johnson's Island.
               Inspection spoiled today by rain. Are doing very well here. Plenty of rations, but
               beef is poor.Renfro & Holt of Co. A. have deserted. (When the conscript law was passed every
               enlisted soldier was allowed a 20 days furlough, to be given at such time as
               authorities should see fit. Gen. S. Cooper A. & I. Gen. issued orders for first
               time. See record of Dec. 25 & 26) xDec. 14thThough we may be stationed transiently here, most of the men have erected good
               quarters and others are busy at it. Adjt. Kendall is ordered to Mobile for 10 days to
               get Blank Books for the Brigade and I am detailed by the Col. to act in his stead
               till his return. I felt rather queer on Dress Parade and scared a little but the Col.
               said I went through it as if I had been at it all my life.Dec. 15thRigid Inspection by Gen. Strahl. He said the guns were in bad condition and no passes
               would be granted until they were cleaned up. Congress is hard at work. The
               President's message is a dignified and able document.Dec. 20th Sunday.I get along as Adjt tolerably well. No new kind of reports to make. Inspections are
               often. Stables are being built for the horses by order of Gen. Hindman. The weather
               has been extremely cold for several days. Went to town and drew money for the
               Non-commissioned Staff and Co. D. Had hard work to get it.Dec. 21stOur cabin is done and I spent forenoon making a bunk, and afternoon and night into
               the night making an Inspection Report as large as a Muster Roll. Tis a job the
               hardest I have met in my experience as an Adjutant.Dec 24thReview by Gen. Stewart. His lady was present. Too muddy to be called a nice scene.
               The Gen (S.) inspected the camps personally, afterwards. He praised our cabin. The
               camp looked well.A barrel of whiskey is in camp, and sold openly. Many are drunk. Police is doubled.
               All the field officers in the Brigade were called out to speak by crowds after night.
               Adjt. Kendall returned at dark.Dec. 25thAll are jolly and many drunk still. Every 30th man is to be furloughed and allowed to
               stay at home 10 days.Dec. 26thBaker A. & C. Trent B. & E. Frazier D & I. Trout J. & K. and F.D.
               Daniel of Band and F. & H. drew the furloughs.Dec. 31st 1863.The year is dying slowly out.The changes, which are many are past. A year ago, the
               Confederates held Tennessee and were fighting hard to retain it at Murfreesboro, and
               I was on my way from home there. Now Tennessee is in the vandal's hands and I am
               in a strange land. It is raining and we are forced to remain in our quarters.
               Congress is busy trying to increase the army and invent some way to keep the old
               troops in the field, without discouraging them.Lincoln agrees to pardon all under the rank of Brig. Gen. if they will return to
               their allegiance and support his proclomations. The enemy seems about to abandon the
               seigeof Charleston, but it is supposed they will try Savannah next.Gen. Forrest is in West Tenn with Hd-qr's at Jackson. His force has been
               increased to ten or fifteen thousand. He is getting volunteers and conscripting
               generally. Officers of the 46th just from Henry say that everybody (nearly) have been
               conscribed, but have furloughs.All of the young men and ladies almost around Conyersville are marrying. Some of the
               men have recieved their furloughs and have gone their way rejoicing.I have only a small Diary for next year and can only chronicle important events. The
               year is going - gone - and I will cease to write of what has become history.I entered the Confederate Army May 20th 1861, enlisting in Co. "D." of
               5th Regiment Tenn. Infantry, serving one year as 4th Sergeant, and one and a half
               years as first, or orderly Sergeant, and one and a half years as brevet 2nd or 3rd
               Lieutenant. Was one of the 30 who were surrendered at Greensboro N.C. as the remnant
               of the 1,300 who enlisted.I much regret that I neglected to keep a record of the events of 1861, 1862 and 1865.
               Much of this can be found in my "History of Henry County Commands," which
               may be found in the Library of Congress Tennessee State Library at Nashville John B.
               Stetson University DeLand Fla. and Carnegie Library at Jacksonville Fla.Tallahassee Fla. May 9th 1907.E.H. Rennolds Sr.E. H. RennoldsCo. D.5th Tenn.