Page 1

150 Our Camp at Franklin Tenn May 6th R. D. 1863 Dearest Leute, I have just finished a letter to brother & sister Noble. You say I must not neglect you for friends. I will endeavor not to. We were out yesterday an fatigue falliing the The air this morning is very diclly & a cold rain is drizzling down. Gen. Gilberts division consisting of 6 Regts moved out to day probably to attack the enemy at Spring Hill. I should not be at all surprised if we should be ordered out before night to reinforce them. Capt. Smith is now at home. I have solid comforts & happiness in my tent when I think how nicely the Capt is enjoying himself. I do hope he will improve in health Lieut Light is in command of the company. The company are getting along finely. I took breakfast at the Caps table yesterday morning; but I should have enjoyed it better had he been present. Dont forget to send by the Capt. the articles I requested. I hope John has got the money I sent I begin to feel uneasy. I juck no letter from you for the past two days, I wonder if you write every day. Well how do things move off at dear old home? I suppose John and Henry are as busy as ever in the Office; you as busy as ever at the sewing machine or caring for the little boys.

Page 2

How are the children getting along? I could not but notice when at home that Berty had grown somewhat rune dgish . Those little boys need great attention . I sympathise with you dearest One . Dont jail to make them mind when you & sp to them just once. I need not give you advice in this; you doubtless think it is easier to preach than to practise; but I feel a great anxiety for the children though I should not for they are in your wise care. Col Sheets is well. Boys that ar with I me getting along well. We are still working like ants at our fortifications Th following is a rough diagram of our position to From the above you will get a fai I did of our situation. It is time for the scribbling to go into mail. My love to all. Tell Ca Smith I can take down anything in Co. B & when he back I shall roll him in the nust. Kiss my boys fo me. I embrace you Good Bye Albert Woodcock Cat., Co., 92nd Illinois

