Page 1

John Inskeep Esqr. Prest. N. A. Ins Co. Philadelphia Daniel Webster Esqe 19 Jany 1822 __ With decisions of the Commissioners

Page 2

Washington, Jany. 19, 1822 John Inskeep Esq. Sir For the benefit of all concerned, I now give you a note of the most important decisions which the Commissioners have as yet made. 1. Claims founded on contracts entered into with the Spanish Government, voluntarily, and alledged to be violated or not fulfilled by that Government, are not within the Treaty. 2. Seizures made in the North of Spain, by the French Military in the time of Joseph Buonaparte, are not within the Treaty. 3. It is not absolutely necessary for Underwriters, claiming for a Total Loss to show a Cession or formal Assignment of the property; it is enough if they show themselves entitled to such assignment. 4. No claims will be received from Underwriters for losses on foreign property insured by them. 5. In cases of capture by Spanish Vessels, brought into Spanish ports proceeded against in Spanish Tribunals, and the case settled by compromise before final judgement, no compensation will be allowed under the Treaty: otherwise, in cases of compromise after condemnation by French Consuls in Spanish Ports, and pending appeals. (6.

Page 3

6. In cases of Condemnation, by French Tribunals, sitting in French ports, of Vessels carried into Spanish Ports, each claim must depend on its particular circumstances. In a more naked case of this kind, there would be no compensation allowed; but in very many cases other considerations arise, and form exceptions favourable to the cases too numerous and complicated to be here stated. 7. In regard to those cases, which have been called cases of consequential damage, the Commissioners will probably be governed by the ordinary rules of Law; and hold the wrongdoer responsible in each case for such damages as necessarily or probably followed from his wrongful act. With much regard Your Hedceir surous D. Webster You will not fail to observe that some of the decisions above mentioned are very material to other claimants having demands on the food. I think may say I have not, as yet, been disappointed, and the result of any inafertout question

