Page 1

Holston U.S.A. Genl Hospital Knoxville, Tenn July 22, 1864 My Own Darling, I have of course nothing new to add to my letter of the 20th inst. in which I enclosed a draft to you of Eight-hundred and Fifty dollars, payable to Pa's order and which I hope you have received. My object in writing you is to give you a clue in case that letter has mis-carried. I also wrote Pa yesterday, giving him the necessary instructions as to the mode of procedure to get said draft cashed. Yours of the 20th likewise contained full explanations. I repeat what I said in it, as far as I recollect. There will be no loss to you, if the draft does not arrive after a reasonable length of time, because no one can put it to any account but Pa and I can get it duplicated until it is paid. I preferred this to risking money in bulk by Adams' Express, as the rail-road is the object of occasional raids and the Company will not hold itself responsible for losses by the enemy. The number of the draft is No 596 -- 1st National Bank of Knoxville Tenn -- July 20th 1864

Page 2

I sent it on to you as soon as I received my pay, knowing that it might be just possible that you were in need of some little comforts, conveniences, &c. and being well aware of the bad practice of carrying so much money about one's person in the society of, to me, a strange town: there might be a robbery at my expense and solicitations for loans might be annoying. At all events, you are welcome to use it as you think best -- I have kept a sum sufficient to defray expenses for three or four months, pay up some borrowed money and have something over when I arrive at home. When my time is out I will have three months pay due me but some say that there is a delay in receiving it, -- the Government does not pay until they are satisfied that your accounts, reports, &c are correct and have been duly forwarded. If the Paymaster happens here again about the commencement of September I may get another sum, which will then only leave an unsettled balance due me from September 1st to 28th. These are the reasons I have not sent you a larger amount. I have been preparing for little contingencies and I know that my precious will not think that I have reserved to myself anything like "a lion's share." You may not be pleased that I made the draft pay

Page 3

able to Pa in preference to yourself. I would have adopted the latter course but was fearful of putting you to too much trouble in getting someone to prove your identity at the Bank; for you know that they are exceedingly particular about those matters. I am no hand to let my business affairs be too much known by other parties than yourself, but in this instance, I thought that probably there would be less risk of delay in the receipt of your money. Pa will willingly do the favor, I request of him for you -- so I would not, were I you, feel anyway delicate about asking him to go with you or get it for you. I must congratulate you on this, the Anniversary of your birthday -- I would that I were home to aid in its celebration by escorting you around and contribute to your enjoyment according to your best pleasure. I have a great many back accounts against me in your favor, which have been necessarily accruing in my absence, in the way of neglected visits, rambles & what not but depend upon it, I mean to pay up with double compound interest. I enclose you a few photographs for our Album -- I'm afraid, however, that I have already encroached too much upon the room you may have reserved for your own relatives and friends. But then you know

Page 4

that Generals are curiosities at all times. The Medical Director is very anxious to keep both Dr. McMillen & myself in the Department under a new arrangement published in orders from the Office of the Secretary of War: by which a regimental surgeon of over two years' service, on the recommendation of the Director, after the mustering out of his regiment, may accept a contract as Acting Staff Surgeon, with rank & pay of regimental surgeon with use of government horse and equipage. But at this time I am obstinately bent upon coming home and do you blame me for sighing after a little freedom? My regards to Mother & Fan -- a kiss for little Pink, and my undivided heart for your own. Our anxious yearnings to see each other I hope and pray may be answered. May Heaven protect you and yours and may I ever prove myself your most earnest friend & defender, while with pride I subscribe myself Your Husband & Lover John Address me as Surgeon John Shrady Holston U.S.A. General Hospital Knoxville, Tenn P.S. Write soon to relieve my anxiety as to arrival of Draft

