Page 1

arrd Dec. 2. / 65 Dr J.G.M. Ramsey Charlotte N.C.

Page 2

Nashville Ten Nov 13th Dear Sir I received your letter a few days ago also a letter and my pocketbook by Express I was glad to learn that you were all well and getting along as well as could be expected under the circumstances. You cant imagine how much I am pleased when I receive letters from you all. I thiink you all might write oftener and could so arrange it that I could get a letter at least every week. There is not a day passes but what I frequently think of you all - and how I would rejoice to see you all settled at some

Page 3

quiet and pleasant home in Ten. I hope the day is not distant when that time will come. You ask how my health is and how I am off for money I have improved in flesh and strenght since I was released from prison - but still I wish I had more strength and flesh. I could attend to business with more ease and pleasure. I have been getting some practice (but the profession is very much crowed ) my expenses are considerable - but the greatest thing I miss is my law library - I lost all my books at Knoxville. I must only try to do the best I can - if I was able to go at some other business. I might make more than I am now making - but I hope

Page 4

my practice may improve - if I had the energy I once had I could get along much better - but I now work out of necessity without any taste for it. As to the sale of your property. I can hardly advise you what to do - if you are really compelled to have money my advice would be to sell even at a sacrifice - but if not I would not for I think the price offered is too low. I have heard that the two houses are renting at five thousand dollars a year - if that is so that part of the house (or that house could be easily rented for a thousand dollars a year and I hope there is a prospect of you getting possession of it soon if you had your pardon by next Court (which is the fourth Monday in this month. You could get possession and then you could rent it perhaps for more than the amount. I have mentioned - if you have not yet got your pardon you might write to the Hon D.T. Patterson at Washington - and if you should get it I dont think there would be any danger in you visiting Knoxville during the Court and pleading the pardon and then the cases would be dismissed I understand that that property has not been sold or confiscated - it is only in the process of confiscation and consequently when the pardon comes it will be restored to you - I suppose Court will last there some five or six weeks and I understand that every thing is now quiet there - if you dont get

Page 5

your pardon by the time court meets I intended to write to Judge Brown or Col Nelson and get the case continued on the grounds that you have applied for pardon and expect to receive it - I would have but very little to do with Mr Cooke as a Lawyer as I have but little confidence in his judgment and he is unexmpelus in the way of fees - that however is between ourselves. I have never been able to learn whether the title to your town property is in your name. I have not yet received a copy of the transcripts of the proceedings in your case though I have written some time ago about it. It is very hard for me to get any correct information from them about any of your business there. It cant be expected that my sister can give me the desired information but I have written to gentlemen there - but they seem to know or care but little about it - if any body had taken any interest in the matter the m ah of your property might have been saved - but I still have not lost all hopes of a recovery - if I could only get the facts of the condition things are in. I hope certainly I will get the documents soon - if not I will look into when I go there in February - if you move to sell the house and lot in a credit the notes might be attacked unless you

Page 6

were to sell them - and I suppose you could not do so with out a sacrifice - I know their are persons that will take the advantage of you and others that have property for sale and try an get it for less than its value - by forcing you to sell that was the object of a great many in bringing about the condition East Ten is now in - in order that they might get your property for a little of nothing before I would be forced to sell under those circumstances (unless you need the money.) I would take my chances for the recovery of it - Any thing you do however will be satisfactory to me. Enclosed I send you Judge Friggs opinion in McCanns case - you will see that we lost the case - but the Judges opinion will be of great service to us. We will make one more effort and I hope we will be more successful. I have had no letters from Knoxville for two or three weeks I presume they are all well. Love to all - will be pleased to hear from you all at any time Yours truly J.C. Ramsey

Page 7

P.S. If you should get your pardon and dont want to come to Knoxville you could send your pardon and the cases I suppose could be disposed of in your absence J.C.R.

