Page 1

Nashville Ten August 31st Dear Sir I wrote Ma a letter about two weeks ago - and supposed that I would have got a letter from some of you before this time. For fear you may have heard of my arrest and be alarmed about it - I thought I would write you. When I was released at Louisville in June and returned to this place I know of the indictments pending against me at Knoxville both in the State and Federal Court - but I know that if I remained in the U.S. I would have to met the case some time or another I then made up my mind to stand my ground and met the cases and have them disposed of at court. I then met the

Page 2

the Sheriff of this country and the Marshal and had an interview with them and told them that I expected capiases would be sent to them from Knoxville for my arrest and that I did not intend to avoid them - but that I desired before entering into business to make an arrangment with them not to arrest me until court and then I would go with them - they agreed to it - and then I commenced business - after remaining here some six weeks a diferent set of circumstances arose and the Sheriff felt it his duty to arrest me and take me to Knoxville where I was bailed upon a writ of Habeas Corpus and returned to this place and have again resumed business. I do not reflect upon the Sheriff for making the arrest - Maj Dick McCarson a citizen of this place was provisionaly

Page 3

arrested and taken to Knoxville and the Sheriff felt that it would not be right for him to have a capies in his pocket for me and not serve it - When Dick was arrested and placed in jail upon the same charge - So you see that I am not yet through with all my troubles and trials - but do not allow them to trouble you or give you any uneasiness about them. I will come out of them all right - but it will put me to some trouble and expense - So you fully may understand the case I send you an article taken from the Nashville Gazette which gives a correct version of the facts of the case and the legal principles that ought to control the case I was imprisoned at Knoxville (which was a week) I met with several of my friends and frequently with my dear Sister - her devotion to me which in all my troubles is unequaled and she was of

Page 4

great service to me and I can never forget her kindness and attachment to me (not only on this occasion but in all my troubles - the sentiment is still bad there - when I was released on bail I remained in prison until the cars started and then I was accompanied with a guard to the Depot. I think it was unnecessary but my friends advised it and I thought it best to take their advice. I have to return the third Monday in Oct. I think things will be better by that time I at least dont apprehend any difficulty I read yesterday your letter to my Uncle - Glad to hear you are all well and that you have got a place for the next year - perhaps it is best for you to stay there for another year - though I still think as I wrote to Ma that you could all return (except Robert) with safety - I wrote Judge Patterson yesterday another letter inregard to our applications. I hope we will get them soon - you might write to him also - his given name is David T. - he resides with the President - All our friends and relatives at Knoxville are well and all are well here - Love to all and will be pleased to hear from all of you often - Uncle William received a letter from Uncle Arthur he is living at Austin and has also suffered in property greatly by the war Yours truly J.G. Ramsey

