Page 1

Hd Qers 9th Tenn. Cavalry. In the Field, Bull's Gap, Tenn: September 9th 1864. My Dr. Col:- Your letter of the 6th was handed me about an hour ago. As soon as I read it I took it to Gen. Gillem. After reading it, he remarked it would afford him pleasure to aid me in getting your and your brother's property to to Knoxville.He said it was sufficient for him to know that my father and myself desired it. That the request of either of us was enough. I asked what plan he could suggest or made of conveying it out. He replied I had authority from him to impress teams from rebels for that purpose. He said he supposed the property referred to was tobacco and that you did not have more than six (6000) thousand pounds. He suggested that I impress three good teams capable of hauling two thousand pounds each. Lt Col J B Brownslow Sept 1864 Death of John Morgan

Page 2

Gallatin, sick at his home in Cleveland. Beside this, I have had, on this campaign, but one company with more than one commissioned officer. If more transportation should be needed I think I can get some of it in the Brigade or as before suggested. There is no scarcity of good teams throughout the country. Nearly all the forage I get for my command I haul in impressed teams. I have thirteen good mule teams, mules in good order, and I keep them in good order by impressing teams for hauling forage. If the rail-road is not destroyed in our rear when we advance I will get transportation on it. At all events I will get the property out without its costing you anything. You have done a great deal for Uncle Sam and there is no reason why he should not do something for you. When I impress wagons to haul anything, the owner or his agent accompanies it to take it home. Nothing can be made for our cause by attempting to conciliate rebels. The only way to restore peace is to kill and subjugate them. Their wagons, mules, horses, corn, oats and every species of property they posess should be made subservient to the convenience and interests of loyal

Page 3

men. I have the men capable of doing all that is necessary in this matter. Thinking it possible I migh, at any day, be placed hors de combat, I have fully explained this matter to my cousin Maj. Hunt who is qualified to attend to it in my absence. Next to my father and brother I would serve you before any man in the state. I now feel like a soldier. I have been in the saddle all day and night without sleep. Frequently for 24 hours been without anything to eat. Gone into Camp at 8 PM when it was dark & raining with with raw bacon and hard tack for my supper. Almost every night since I saw you I have slept on the ground with one blanket. A few mornings since I awoke at 5 o'clock to find a large Loizzard under my back. I have been in two regular engagements and several other times under fire in skirmishes. Eleven brave men have been wounded around me, one mortally. At Greenville my men were under Artilery fire. At Gallatin I had rigid discipline enforced

Page 4

I could not do this thoroughly without the cooperation of company comanders. Nearly all company commanders gave me their hearty cooperation in this respect. In the fighting we have done, those companies whose commanders did not co-operate with me heartily in enforcing discipline have fallen behind the other companies. All, however, have acted courageously. All the officers now see the importance of enforcing discipline. Unless you have absolute controll over men in camp you can't have on the field. IGen. Gillem has told me after every engagement that he was entirely satisfied with the part I had acted. Beside this I have nothing to say of myself. Of my regiment, I could justly say much. I am proud of it, and consider it an honor to East Tennessee. Kind regards to Mrs. Temple and Mary Your Friend, John B. Brownlow Lt. Col. Com'dg 9th Tenn. Cav. Col. O.P. Temple Knoxville, Tenn.

