Page 1

Mrs. J. G. M. Ramsey (North) Knoxville Tenn

Page 2

1030 Spruce Street. Philadelphia Penn Feb 15. Dear Mrs. Ramsey: I have been intending to write to you for a long time, & I am sorry to say have let one obstacle after another prevent me, until now. My life is busy one for a person of my age - & when we first cause we were all sick, for two & three weeks. I went to Knoxville in Dec. intending to remain there until January - Two of my daughters were to spend the winter with my son Frank - another daughter & my two little Gr daughters, were to come here by January - but were wanted very much to spend Christmas together in

Page 3

Knoxville - My sons house being too small for us all, we wished to find board near, so that we could all be together, & I crowed in at my sons for a couple of days, while the family looked for board for us in every direction - but could find no place except at one of the hotels at the other end of town, & as I had hurt my foot very badly, & could only walk a short distance, there would have been small comfort in that, so at the last we gave up, & came on here, three weeks before the schools opened, & spent our Christmas among strangers. I should certainly have got a carriage & gone out to see you, had I imagined it possible, we could not find, even

Page 4

one room to board in near Summit hill, for we we willing to be crowded, & pay high board, so anxious were we to stay. I only gave up all hope, the evening before we left, & then had packing & letters to write -. I do not think this place agreed with us at first - the climate is very severe, and the house heated by a furnace - no open fires at all - the rooms get very hot, & if a window is open, the outer air is bitter cold. However, at last we have learnt to manage the heat & our clothing more judiciously, though we can not get rid of colds. I came here to put my little deaf Gr daughter to the Oral School, as it is called,

Page 5

which is a branch school of the large Philadelphia Asylum, where those who wish to learn speech, have separate instruction - There are over 70 pupils, who are taught speech, & not allowed to use sighs - I am sorry to say they are none of them the children of gentlefolks, though several well off enough to pay for instruction. As well as I can judge, it is a good school, & it was the best thing we could do to bring the child here. My daughter Marie, attended the school of design, & is much interested in her work -. She & Esther both go directly after breakfast - Esther returns at 2, but my daughter, not until five - So I am left with my other Gr child, whom I teach every day.

Page 6

No 2. You will see from all this we are not idle, & I have besides the childrens clothes & many things for them to attend to. I prefer Philadelphia very much to Louisville - We have relatives here too - though never met the younger ones before - & knew but little of the Mother, who was a Middleton, from Charleston, older than I am, and married a Philadelphian, before I was grown up - but they are nice people & very polite to us. Then we have a very comfortable boarding house - a large delightful room, & very excellent table - the people in the house are quite nice too, so we think ourselves fortunate. We shall remain here until the end of May - and if

Page 7

I stop in Knoxville, I shall be out to see you without delay you may be sure. My daughters, except the one with me, will all then be at our home at Sewanee, & plenty of room for us in Franks house. I have thought of you very often, Dear Mrs Ramsay, & commenced writing more than once, but some thing always prevented my finishing my letter - I am very glad you have your daughters with you There are some old ladies here without children or gr children & they seem so lonely, with none to care for them, I think we are much fortunate however great our troubles may have been. Remember me kindly to your daughters, & believe me yours affectionately M E Huger

