Page 1

Mrs. Miriam S. Moulton Hampton N.H.

Page 2

Camp Near Knoxville Tenn Feb 19th, 64 Dear Mother, I received a letter from you yesterday and was glad to hear from home and that you was well. I my stockings at the same time and was much pleased to get them I have received both pair of stockings and they were just the rite size I have got all that you sent me the diary and the package of paper. I thank you for what you have sent me especially my stockings and you must take your pay for it out of my pay we shall get paid off again soon and when you get I want you to keep enough for yourself when you

Page 3

write again let me know if you have received the last payment for last year up to the first of September. I received a letter from Tuck first of the week he was in camp near warrinton he said that his health was good and he said on the day of christmas they all had either a turkey or a chicking and some a ham I had fresh pork for my thanksgiveing dinner also christmas dinner. I suppose that you remember where I was on that day it did not seem much like thanksgiving day to me but more like the fourth of July to hear the guns and could see plenty of gray backs as we call them out here that is rebels they said that they were gont to eat their thanksgiving dinner in Knoxville but they missed of it that time. Old Longstreet

Page 4

hates to leave east tennessee last week our cavalry had a fight with him and whiped him took some prisoners and two pieces of artillery Longstreet might as well leave the state for if he could not take Knoxville before I am sure that he cannot now it is fortified very strong and I was in the city yesterday and are still to work fortifing all the way that the rebels can get it is to starve us out and I dont think they can do that when we get the last call in the field we ought to drive them into the gulff of Mexico. When you get my shirts done you may send one by the male and keep the other one till I send for it when you send it do not seal up the ends and it will come safe and not cost

Page 5

so much. Our Chaplain does not have eny meettings only on the sabbath I donot like him so as I did Mr Stratin but he is a pretty good man. We have not started for home yet but the report is that we are to start soon as it is getting late will close my health and courage is very good yet and I hope this will find you the same. I send my best respects to all good night From your respectful son David A. Moulton

