Page 1

Our Retreat Near Salisbury Feb 9th 1870 Dear Sir I wrote you several days since from Alexanders steam Mills where I had gone on a short visit to Mrs. R. L. Inc. I presume it will reach you before this. It was mailed at Charlotte on my return home last night I found you two favors of the 2nd, 14th, instant also my quit claim to W. Breakbill. the place left blank for the consideration was not long enough to contain the items of the amount paid & to be paid but the intistimation I presume will work no detriment to the bud. Again the Boundaries are so described as to embrace within them the entire Church lot which my father more than fifty yars since conveyed to its kristus I suppose Mr. B. forgot that I never claimed nor owned it. I therefore intidined the exceptional clause on the 20th line. The consideration as I describe it is taken from the copy of the Afreement I have before me 1 of which you hold the original. I chose not to embarras the hade with B. by referring to $200.00 - Major Boyds award in regard to rents and improvements of the property which was one of the timtems in our comprimise of the suit. I have refered to it in former

Page 2

for the purpose of facilitating your repurchase of the lower part of the place for me. As he now seems to preparing for a bona fide payment I say nothing further now about this award only that it was one of the consideration on which the compromise was effected by Boyd You will of course take special care not to deliver the deed till payment is made or satisfactorily secured In mine from Charlotte I requested you to invest one half of hte proceeds in Knon County 6 per cents - at as low figures as you can for my wife - & express to me the other half in Greenbacks or sight drafts on New York. I need it for su-- she has me at my little yet & I W. A. has purchased his Mothers life Estate in a large property & I wish to hup them pay for it Retain tho one bond for my niece Lucy. If Mrs Bricks rents & the deposit made to her credit or possibly mine, by her tennants Krists in Peoples Bank & the amt. you received from M. J. D. for corn sold are insufficient for the Marshalls fus - this authorises you to use my monies & take necessary reciepts. Mr. B. sums confident that J.C.R. really paid this cost in her presence I am glad you are so hopeful of M Knitts cause insulting faborably to him

Page 3

I have often wished to inquire if there is no way of releasing funds in hands of blush L. Master in my favor & applying them to the payment of just claims against me? Mrs Swans for instance that is as honest a debt as any man we owe & I have always wanted it paid I have frequently directed Crozier to apply $3750 paid into the C.L.M. Office (from Foster I believe) for my Yorsit farm if by any means these vexations Attachments could be removed Can you to have this done before I wish is the I see advertisements of the Lyon property at the sherifss sale Ought not I as surviving Trustee of B.L of I. J. to take measures to secure his part of this liability> I wrote you I Crnick a joint letter on this subject I am without reply from either of you: Please look into this. If Breakbill still fails to pay up as I wrote you on the 4th can you do any thing for me by trying to repurchase Jona Mecklenbury I am we all are doing well here but if MK recovers his farm & M.J.D. still remains on River Side I think we ought to return home If he fails to pay suppose you make him an

Page 4

offer for one half embracing the Holston part of the property. Still I expect it is best to hold on to our first bargain if by patience & importunity you can syuse payment out of them without further delay - cost of another suit A Saml. PIckle may be able to help you. Mrs. A. & all ours are well Tell Willie Dickson this when you see him I go to Salisbury 11 miles in the morning to execute & acknoledge the Deed & will enclose it in another envelope on the 4th. I acknowledged the emittance of $33 for coupons

